11-1011| Chief Executives|Direct or coordinate an organization's financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency. Appoint department heads or managers and assign or delegate responsibilities to them. Analyze operations to evaluate performance of a company or its staff in meeting objectives or to determine areas of potential cost reduction, program improvement, or policy change. Direct, plan, or implement policies, objectives, or activities of organizations or businesses to ensure continuing operations, to maximize returns on investments, or to increase productivity. Prepare budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs. Confer with board members, organization officials, or staff members to discuss issues, coordinate activities, or resolve problems. Implement corrective action plans to solve organizational or departmental problems. Direct human resources activities, including the approval of human resource plans or activities, the selection of directors or other high-level staff, or establishment or organization of major departments. Establish departmental responsibilities and coordinate functions among departments and sites. Preside over or serve on boards of directors, management committees, or other governing boards. Negotiate or approve contracts or agreements with suppliers, distributors, federal or state agencies, or other organizational entities. Coordinate the development or implementation of budgetary control systems, recordkeeping systems, or other administrative control processes. Review reports submitted by staff members to recommend approval or to suggest changes. Deliver speeches, write articles, or present information at meetings or conventions to promote services, exchange ideas, or accomplish objectives. Interpret and explain policies, rules, regulations, or laws to organizations, government or corporate officials, or individuals. Prepare or present reports concerning activities, expenses, budgets, government statutes or rulings, or other items affecting businesses or program services. Review and analyze legislation, laws, or public policy and recommend changes to promote or support interests of the general population or special groups. Administer programs for selection of sites, construction of buildings, or provision of equipment or supplies. Direct or conduct studies or research on issues affecting areas of responsibility. Direct or coordinate activities of businesses or departments concerned with production, pricing, sales, or distribution of products. Make presentations to legislative or other government committees regarding policies, programs, or budgets. Refer major policy matters to elected representatives for final decisions. Direct or coordinate activities of businesses involved with buying or selling investment products or financial services. Conduct or direct investigations or hearings to resolve complaints or violations of laws or testify at such hearings. Direct non-merchandising departments, such as advertising, purchasing, credit, or accounting. Prepare bylaws approved by elected officials and ensure that bylaws are enforced. Serve as liaisons between organizations, shareholders, and outside organizations. Attend and participate in meetings of municipal councils or council committees. Represent organizations or promote their objectives at official functions or delegate representatives to do so. Organize or approve promotional campaigns.
11-1021| General and Operations Managers|Review financial statements, sales or activity reports, or other performance data to measure productivity or goal achievement or to identify areas needing cost reduction or program improvement. Direct and coordinate activities of businesses or departments concerned with the production, pricing, sales, or distribution of products. Direct administrative activities directly related to making products or providing services. Prepare staff work schedules and assign specific duties. Monitor suppliers to ensure that they efficiently and effectively provide needed goods or services within budgetary limits. Direct or coordinate financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency. Establish or implement departmental policies, goals, objectives, or procedures in conjunction with board members, organization officials, or staff members. Perform personnel functions such as selection, training, or evaluation. Plan or direct activities such as sales promotions that require coordination with other department managers. Set prices or credit terms for goods or services based on forecasts of customer demand. Manage the movement of goods into and out of production facilities to ensure efficiency, effectiveness, or sustainability of operations. Perform sales floor work, such as greeting or assisting customers, stocking shelves, or taking inventory. Develop or implement product-marketing strategies, including advertising campaigns or sales promotions. Recommend locations for new facilities or oversee the remodeling or renovating of current facilities. Implement or oversee environmental management or sustainability programs addressing issues such as recycling, conservation, or waste management. Direct non-merchandising departments of businesses, such as advertising or purchasing.
11-1031| Legislators|Analyze and understand the local and national implications of proposed legislation. Appoint nominees to leadership posts, or approve such appointments. Confer with colleagues to formulate positions and strategies pertaining to pending issues. Debate the merits of proposals and bill amendments during floor sessions, following the appropriate rules of procedure. Develop expertise in subject matters related to committee assignments. Hear testimony from constituents, representatives of interest groups, board and commission members, and others with an interest in bills or issues under consideration. Keep abreast of the issues affecting constituents by making personal visits and phone calls, reading local newspapers, and viewing or listening to local broadcasts. Maintain knowledge of relevant national and international current events. Make decisions that balance the perspectives of private citizens, public officials, and party leaders. Negotiate with colleagues or members of other political parties in order to reconcile differing interests, and to create policies and agreements. Prepare drafts of amendments, government policies, laws, rules, regulations, budgets, programs and procedures. Read and review concerns of constituents or the general public and determine if governmental action is necessary. Represent their parties in negotiations with political executives or members of other parties, and when speaking with the media. Review bills in committee, and make recommendations about their future. Seek federal funding for local projects and programs. Serve on commissions, investigative panels, study groups, and committees in order to examine specialized areas and recommend action. Vote on motions, amendments, and decisions on whether or not to report a bill out from committee to the assembly floor. Write, prepare, and deliver statements for the Congressional Record. Alert constituents of government actions and programs by way of newsletters, personal appearances at town meetings, phone calls, and individual meetings. Attend receptions, dinners, and conferences to meet people, exchange views and information, and develop working relationships. Conduct "head counts" to help predict the outcome of upcoming votes. Determine campaign strategies for media advertising, positions on issues, and public appearances. Encourage and support party candidates for political office. Establish personal offices in local districts or states, and manage office staff. Evaluate the structure, efficiency, activities, and performance of government agencies. Organize and maintain campaign organizations and fundraisers, in order to raise money for election or re-election. Oversee expense allowances, ensuring that accounts are balanced at the end of each fiscal year. Promote the industries and products of their electoral districts. Represent their government at local, national, and international meetings and conferences. Speak to students to encourage and support the development of future political leaders.
11-2011| Advertising and Promotions Managers|Inspect layouts and advertising copy and edit scripts, audio and video tapes, and other promotional material for adherence to specifications. Plan and prepare advertising and promotional material to increase sales of products or services, working with customers, company officials, sales departments, and advertising agencies. Gather and organize information to plan advertising campaigns. Confer with clients to provide marketing or technical advice. Direct, motivate, and monitor the mobilization of a campaign team to advance campaign goals. Confer with department heads or staff to discuss topics such as contracts, selection of advertising media, or product to be advertised. Prepare budgets and submit estimates for program costs as part of campaign plan development. Prepare and negotiate advertising and sales contracts. Plan and execute advertising policies and strategies for organizations. Assist with annual budget development. Provide presentation and product demonstration support during the introduction of new products and services to field staff and customers. Formulate plans to extend business with established accounts and to transact business as agent for advertising accounts. Direct and coordinate product research and development. Identify and develop contacts for promotional campaigns and industry programs that meet identified buyer targets, such as dealers, distributors, or consumers. Represent company at trade association meetings to promote products. Read trade journals and professional literature to stay informed on trends, innovations, and changes that affect media planning. Consult publications to learn about conventions and social functions and to organize prospect files for promotional purposes. Coordinate activities of departments, such as sales, graphic arts, media, finance, and research. Train and direct workers engaged in developing and producing advertisements. Track program budgets and expenses and campaign response rates to evaluate each campaign based on program objectives and industry norms. Monitor and analyze sales promotion results to determine cost effectiveness of promotion campaigns. Coordinate with the media to disseminate advertising. Contact organizations to explain services and facilities offered. Manage sales team including setting goals, providing incentives, and evaluating employee performance. Assemble and communicate with a strong, diverse coalition of organizations or public figures, securing their cooperation, support and action, to further campaign goals.
11-2021| Marketing Managers|Identify, develop, or evaluate marketing strategy, based on knowledge of establishment objectives, market characteristics, and cost and markup factors. Formulate, direct, or coordinate marketing activities or policies to promote products or services, working with advertising or promotion managers. Evaluate the financial aspects of product development, such as budgets, expenditures, research and development appropriations, or return-on-investment and profit-loss projections. Develop pricing strategies, balancing firm objectives and customer satisfaction. Compile lists describing product or service offerings. Direct the hiring, training, or performance evaluations of marketing or sales staff and oversee their daily activities. Consult with product development personnel on product specifications such as design, color, or packaging. Use sales forecasting or strategic planning to ensure the sale and profitability of products, lines, or services, analyzing business developments and monitoring market trends. Negotiate contracts with vendors or distributors to manage product distribution, establishing distribution networks or developing distribution strategies. Coordinate or participate in promotional activities or trade shows, working with developers, advertisers, or production managers, to market products or services. Initiate market research studies or analyze their findings. Confer with legal staff to resolve problems, such as copyright infringement or royalty sharing with outside producers or distributors. Consult with buying personnel to gain advice regarding the types of products or services expected to be in demand. Consult with buying personnel to gain advice regarding environmentally sound or sustainable products. Conduct economic or commercial surveys to identify potential markets for products or services. Recommend modifications to products, packaging, production processes, or other characteristics to improve the environmental soundness or sustainability of products. Advise business or other groups on local, national, or international factors affecting the buying or selling of products or services.
11-2022| Sales Managers|Resolve customer complaints regarding sales and service. Oversee regional and local sales managers and their staffs. Plan and direct staffing, training, and performance evaluations to develop and control sales and service programs. Determine price schedules and discount rates. Review operational records and reports to project sales and determine profitability. Monitor customer preferences to determine focus of sales efforts. Prepare budgets and approve budget expenditures. Confer or consult with department heads to plan advertising services and to secure information on equipment and customer specifications. Direct and coordinate activities involving sales of manufactured products, services, commodities, real estate or other subjects of sale. Confer with potential customers regarding equipment needs and advise customers on types of equipment to purchase. Direct foreign sales and service outlets of an organization. Advise dealers and distributors on policies and operating procedures to ensure functional effectiveness of business. Visit franchised dealers to stimulate interest in establishment or expansion of leasing programs. Direct clerical staff to keep records of export correspondence, bid requests, and credit collections, and to maintain current information on tariffs, licenses, and restrictions. Direct, coordinate, and review activities in sales and service accounting and record-keeping, and in receiving and shipping operations. Assess marketing potential of new and existing store locations, considering statistics and expenditures.
11-2031| Public Relations and Fundraising Managers|Establish and maintain effective working relationships with clients, government officials, and media representatives and use these relationships to develop new business opportunities. Write interesting and effective press releases, prepare information for media kits, and develop and maintain company internet or intranet web pages. Identify main client groups and audiences, determine the best way to communicate publicity information to them, and develop and implement a communication plan. Assign, supervise, and review the activities of public relations staff. Develop and maintain the company's corporate image and identity, which includes the use of logos and signage. Respond to requests for information about employers' activities or status. Manage communications budgets. Direct activities of external agencies, establishments, and departments that develop and implement communication strategies and information programs. Draft speeches for company executives and arrange interviews and other forms of contact for them. Evaluate advertising and promotion programs for compatibility with public relations efforts. Manage special events, such as sponsorship of races, parties introducing new products, or other activities the firm supports, to gain public attention through the media without advertising directly. Facilitate consumer relations or the relationship between parts of the company, such as the managers and employees, or different branch offices. Formulate policies and procedures related to public information programs, working with public relations executives. Establish goals for soliciting funds, develop policies for collection and safeguarding of contributions, and coordinate disbursement of funds. Confer with labor relations managers to develop internal communications that keep employees informed of company activities. Produce films and other video products, regulate their distribution, and operate film library. Observe and report on social, economic, and political trends that might affect employers. Maintain company archives.
11-3011| Administrative Services Managers|Direct or coordinate the supportive services department of a business, agency, or organization. Prepare and review operational reports and schedules to ensure accuracy and efficiency. Set goals and deadlines for the department. Acquire, distribute and store supplies. Analyze internal processes and recommend and implement procedural or policy changes to improve operations, such as supply changes or the disposal of records. Plan, administer, and control budgets for contracts, equipment, and supplies. Monitor the facility to ensure that it remains safe, secure, and well-maintained. Hire and terminate clerical and administrative personnel. Oversee the maintenance and repair of machinery, equipment, and electrical and mechanical systems. Oversee construction and renovation projects to improve efficiency and to ensure that facilities meet environmental, health, and security standards, and comply with government regulations. Conduct classes to teach procedures to staff. Participate in architectural and engineering planning and design, including space and installation management.
11-3021| Computer and Information Systems Managers|Review project plans to plan and coordinate project activity. Manage backup, security and user help systems. Develop and interpret organizational goals, policies, and procedures. Develop computer information resources, providing for data security and control, strategic computing, and disaster recovery. Consult with users, management, vendors, and technicians to assess computing needs and system requirements. Stay abreast of advances in technology. Meet with department heads, managers, supervisors, vendors, and others, to solicit cooperation and resolve problems. Provide users with technical support for computer problems. Recruit, hire, train and supervise staff, or participate in staffing decisions. Evaluate data processing proposals to assess project feasibility and requirements. Control operational budget and expenditures. Review and approve all systems charts and programs prior to their implementation. Direct daily operations of department, analyzing workflow, establishing priorities, developing standards and setting deadlines. Assign and review the work of systems analysts, programmers, and other computer-related workers. Evaluate the organization's technology use and needs and recommend improvements, such as hardware and software upgrades. Prepare and review operational reports or project progress reports. Purchase necessary equipment.
11-3031|Financial Managers|Supervise employees performing financial reporting, accounting, billing, collections, payroll, and budgeting duties. Coordinate and direct the financial planning, budgeting, procurement, or investment activities of all or part of an organization. Develop internal control policies, guidelines, and procedures for activities such as budget administration, cash and credit management, and accounting. Maintain current knowledge of organizational policies and procedures, federal and state policies and directives, and current accounting standards. Prepare or direct preparation of financial statements, business activity reports, financial position forecasts, annual budgets, or reports required by regulatory agencies. Provide direction and assistance to other organizational units regarding accounting and budgeting policies and procedures and efficient control and utilization of financial resources. Analyze the financial details of past, present, and expected operations to identify development opportunities and areas where improvement is needed. Advise management on short-term and long-term financial objectives, policies, and actions. Monitor financial activities and details, such as cash flow and reserve levels, to ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements are met. Evaluate needs for procurement of funds and investment of surpluses and make appropriate recommendations. Monitor and evaluate the performance of accounting and other financial staff, recommending and implementing personnel actions, such as promotions and dismissals. Develop and maintain relationships with banking, insurance, and nonorganizational accounting personnel to facilitate financial activities. Receive, record, and authorize requests for disbursements in accordance with company policies and procedures. Delegate authority for the receipt, disbursement, banking, protection, and custody of funds, securities, and financial instruments. Conduct or coordinate audits of company accounts and financial transactions to ensure compliance with state and federal requirements and statutes. Lead staff training and development in budgeting and financial management areas. Prepare and file annual tax returns or prepare financial information so that outside accountants can complete tax returns. Compute, withhold, and account for all payroll deductions. Handle all aspects of employee insurance, benefits, and casualty programs, including monitoring changes in health insurance regulations and creating budgets for benefits and worker's compensation. Receive cash and checks and make deposits. Perform tax planning work.Plan, direct, or coordinate the activities of workers in branches, offices, or departments of establishments, such as branch banks, brokerage firms, risk and insurance departments, or credit departments. Establish and maintain relationships with individual or business customers or provide assistance with problems these customers may encounter. Recruit staff members. Prepare operational or risk reports for management analysis. Evaluate data pertaining to costs to plan budgets. Oversee training programs. Examine, evaluate, or process loan applications. Approve, reject, or coordinate the approval or rejection of lines of credit or commercial, real estate, or personal loans. Oversee the flow of cash or financial instruments. Prepare financial or regulatory reports required by laws, regulations, or boards of directors. Develop or analyze information to assess the current or future financial status of firms. Communicate with stockholders or other investors to provide information or to raise capital. Evaluate financial reporting systems, accounting or collection procedures, or investment activities and make recommendations for changes to procedures, operating systems, budgets, or other financial control functions. Analyze and classify risks and investments to determine their potential impacts on companies. Network within communities to find and attract new business. Review collection reports to determine the status of collections and the amounts of outstanding balances. Establish procedures for custody or control of assets, records, loan collateral, or securities to ensure safekeeping. Plan, direct, and coordinate risk and insurance programs of establishments to control risks and losses. Review reports of securities transactions or price lists to analyze market conditions. Direct insurance negotiations, select insurance brokers or carriers, and place insurance. Submit delinquent accounts to attorneys or outside agencies for collection.
11-3051| Industrial Production Managers|Review processing schedules or production orders to make decisions concerning inventory requirements, staffing requirements, work procedures, or duty assignments, considering budgetary limitations and time constraints. Direct or coordinate production, processing, distribution, or marketing activities of industrial organizations. Develop or implement production tracking or quality control systems, analyzing production, quality control, maintenance, or other operational reports, to detect production problems. Review operations and confer with technical or administrative staff to resolve production or processing problems. Hire, train, evaluate, or discharge staff or resolve personnel grievances. Prepare and maintain production reports or personnel records. Set and monitor product standards, examining samples of raw products or directing testing during processing, to ensure finished products are of prescribed quality. Develop budgets or approve expenditures for supplies, materials, or human resources, ensuring that materials, labor, or equipment are used efficiently to meet production targets. Initiate or coordinate inventory or cost control programs. Coordinate or recommend procedures for facility or equipment maintenance or modification, including the replacement of machines. Review plans and confer with research or support staff to develop new products or processes. Institute employee suggestion or involvement programs. Maintain current knowledge of the quality control field, relying on current literature pertaining to materials use, technological advances, or statistical studies. Negotiate materials prices with suppliers.
11-3061| Purchasing Managers|Represent companies in negotiating contracts and formulating policies with suppliers. Direct and coordinate activities of personnel engaged in buying, selling, and distributing materials, equipment, machinery, and supplies. Interview and hire staff, and oversee staff training. Locate vendors of materials, equipment or supplies, and interview them to determine product availability and terms of sales. Prepare and process requisitions and purchase orders for supplies and equipment. Develop and implement purchasing and contract management instructions, policies, and procedures. Maintain records of goods ordered and received. Participate in the development of specifications for equipment, products or substitute materials. Analyze market and delivery systems to assess present and future material availability. Resolve vendor or contractor grievances, and claims against suppliers. Control purchasing department budgets. Review, evaluate, and approve specifications for issuing and awarding bids. Review purchase order claims and contracts for conformance to company policy. Administer online purchasing systems. Prepare reports regarding market conditions and merchandise costs. Prepare bid awards requiring board approval.
11-3071| Transportation, Storage, and Distribution Managers|Plan, organize, or manage the work of subordinate staff to ensure that the work is accomplished in a manner consistent with organizational requirements. Direct activities related to dispatching, routing, or tracking transportation vehicles, such as aircraft or railroad cars. Monitor operations to ensure that staff members comply with administrative policies and procedures, safety rules, union contracts, environmental policies, or government regulations. Serve as contact persons for all workers within assigned territories. Implement schedule or policy changes for transportation services. Monitor spending to ensure that expenses are consistent with approved budgets. Promote safe work activities by conducting safety audits, attending company safety meetings, or meeting with individual staff members. Prepare management recommendations, such as proposed fee and tariff increases or schedule changes. Direct investigations to verify and resolve customer or shipper complaints. Direct or coordinate the activities of operations department to obtain use of equipment, facilities, or human resources. Analyze expenditures and other financial information to develop plans, policies, or budgets for increasing profits or improving services. Collaborate with other managers or staff members to formulate and implement policies, procedures, goals, or objectives. Plan or implement energy saving changes to transportation services, such as reducing routes, optimizing capacities, employing alternate modes of transportation, or minimizing idling. Direct staff performing repairs and maintenance to equipment, vehicles, or facilities. Conduct employee training sessions on subjects such as hazardous material handling, employee orientation, quality improvement, or computer use. Recommend or authorize capital expenditures for acquisition of new equipment or property to increase efficiency and services of operations department. Conduct investigations in cooperation with government agencies to determine causes of transportation accidents, coordinate cleanup activities, or improve safety procedures. Set operations policies and standards, including determining safety procedures for the handling of dangerous goods. Develop criteria, application instructions, procedural manuals, or contracts for federal or state public transportation programs. Develop or implement plans to improve transportation services control from regional to national or global load control center operations. Direct central load control centers to maximize efficiency and effectiveness of transportation services. Supervise clerks assigning tariff classifications or preparing billing. Negotiate, authorize, or monitor fulfillment of contracts with equipment or materials suppliers. Evaluate transportation vehicles or auxiliary equipment for purchase by considering factors such as fuel economy or aerodynamics. Identify or select transportation and communications system technologies to reduce costs or environmental impacts. Provide administrative or technical assistance to those receiving transportation-related grants. Direct procurement processes including equipment research and testing, vendor contracts, or requisitions approval.Prepare and manage departmental budgets. Supervise the activities of workers engaged in receiving, storing, testing, and shipping products or materials. Interview, select, and train warehouse and supervisory personnel. Plan, develop, or implement warehouse safety and security programs and activities. Prepare or direct preparation of correspondence, reports, and operations, maintenance, and safety manuals. Issue shipping instructions and provide routing information to ensure that delivery times and locations are coordinated. Confer with department heads to coordinate warehouse activities, such as production, sales, records control, or purchasing. Review invoices, work orders, consumption reports, or demand forecasts to estimate peak delivery periods and to issue work assignments. Inspect physical conditions of warehouses, vehicle fleets, or equipment and order testing, maintenance, repairs, or replacements. Schedule or monitor air or surface pickup, delivery, or distribution of products or materials. Respond to customers' or shippers' questions and complaints regarding storage and distribution services. Develop and document standard and emergency operating procedures for receiving, handling, storing, shipping, or salvaging products or materials. Develop or implement plans for facility modification or expansion, such as equipment purchase or changes in space allocation or structural design. Track and trace goods while they are en route to their destinations, expediting orders when necessary. Negotiate with carriers, warehouse operators, or insurance company representatives for services and preferential rates. Arrange for necessary shipping documentation and contact customs officials to effect release of shipments. Evaluate freight or inventory costs associated with transit times to ensure that costs are appropriate. Advise sales and billing departments of transportation charges for customers' accounts. Examine invoices and shipping manifests for conformity to tariff and customs regulations.Resolve problems concerning transportation, logistics systems, imports or exports, or customer issues. Collaborate with other departments to integrate logistics with business systems or processes, such as customer sales, order management, accounting, or shipping. Maintain metrics, reports, process documentation, customer service logs, or training or safety records. Supervise the work of logistics specialists, planners, or schedulers. Direct inbound or outbound logistics operations, such as transportation or warehouse activities, safety performance, or logistics quality management. Direct or coordinate comprehensive logistical or reverse logistical functions for product life cycles, including acquisition, distribution, internal allocation, delivery, recycling, reuse, or final disposal of resources. Negotiate with suppliers or customers to improve supply chain efficiency or sustainability. Direct distribution center operation to ensure achievement of cost, productivity, accuracy, or timeliness objectives. Negotiate transportation rates or services. Analyze the financial impact of proposed logistics changes, such as routing, shipping modes, product volumes or mixes, or carriers. Recommend optimal transportation modes, routing, equipment, or frequency. Monitor product import or export processes to ensure compliance with regulatory or legal requirements. Participate in carrier management processes, such as selection, qualification, or performance evaluation. Develop risk management programs to ensure continuity of supply in emergency scenarios. Plan or implement improvements to internal or external logistics systems or processes. Plan or implement material flow management systems to meet production requirements. Analyze all aspects of corporate logistics to determine the most cost-effective or efficient means of transporting products or supplies. Create policies or procedures for logistics activities. Communicate freight transportation information to customers or suppliers, using transportation management, electronic logistics marketplace, or electronic freight information systems, to improve efficiency, speed, or quality of transportation services. Establish or monitor specific supply chain-based performance measurement systems. Implement specific customer requirements, such as internal reporting or customized transportation metrics. Ensure carrier compliance with company policies or procedures for product transit or delivery. Train shipping department personnel in roles or responsibilities regarding global logistics strategies. Review global, national, or regional transportation or logistics reports for ways to improve efficiency or minimize the environmental impact of logistics activities. Prepare or file environmental certification applications.
11-3111| Compensation and Benefits Managers|Design, evaluate and modify benefits policies to ensure that programs are current, competitive and in compliance with legal requirements. Analyze compensation policies, government regulations, and prevailing wage rates to develop competitive compensation plan. Fulfill all reporting requirements of all relevant government rules and regulations, including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Direct preparation and distribution of written and verbal information to inform employees of benefits, compensation, and personnel policies. Administer, direct, and review employee benefit programs, including the integration of benefit programs following mergers and acquisitions. Plan, direct, supervise, and coordinate work activities of subordinates and staff relating to employment, compensation, labor relations, and employee relations. Identify and implement benefits to increase the quality of life for employees, by working with brokers and researching benefits issues. Manage the design and development of tools to assist employees in benefits selection, and to guide managers through compensation decisions. Prepare detailed job descriptions and classification systems and define job levels and families, in partnership with other managers. Prepare budgets for personnel operations. Formulate policies, procedures and programs for recruitment, testing, placement, classification, orientation, benefits and compensation, and labor and industrial relations. Mediate between benefits providers and employees, such as by assisting in handling employees' benefits-related questions or taking suggestions. Develop methods to improve employment policies, processes, and practices, and recommend changes to management. Study legislation, arbitration decisions, and collective bargaining contracts to assess industry trends. Maintain records and compile statistical reports concerning personnel-related data such as hires, transfers, performance appraisals, and absenteeism rates. Negotiate bargaining agreements. Conduct exit interviews to identify reasons for employee termination. Plan and conduct new employee orientations to foster positive attitude toward organizational objectives. Advise management on such matters as equal employment opportunity, sexual harassment and discrimination. Investigate and report on industrial accidents for insurance carriers. Prepare personnel forecasts to project employment needs. Analyze statistical data and reports to identify and determine causes of personnel problems and develop recommendations for improvement of organization's personnel policies and practices.
11-3121| Human Resources Managers|Serve as a link between management and employees by handling questions, interpreting and administering contracts and helping resolve work-related problems. Analyze and modify compensation and benefits policies to establish competitive programs and ensure compliance with legal requirements. Advise managers on organizational policy matters such as equal employment opportunity and sexual harassment, and recommend needed changes. Perform difficult staffing duties, including dealing with understaffing, refereeing disputes, firing employees, and administering disciplinary procedures. Plan and conduct new employee orientation to foster positive attitude toward organizational objectives. Identify staff vacancies and recruit, interview and select applicants. Plan, direct, supervise, and coordinate work activities of subordinates and staff relating to employment, compensation, labor relations, and employee relations. Plan, organize, direct, control or coordinate the personnel, training, or labor relations activities of an organization. Represent organization at personnel-related hearings and investigations. Administer compensation, benefits and performance management systems, and safety and recreation programs. Provide current and prospective employees with information about policies, job duties, working conditions, wages, opportunities for promotion and employee benefits. Analyze statistical data and reports to identify and determine causes of personnel problems and develop recommendations for improvement of organization's personnel policies and practices. Prepare and follow budgets for personnel operations. Maintain records and compile statistical reports concerning personnel-related data such as hires, transfers, performance appraisals, and absenteeism rates. Analyze training needs to design employee development, language training and health and safety programs. Conduct exit interviews to identify reasons for employee termination. Oversee the evaluation, classification and rating of occupations and job positions. Prepare personnel forecast to project employment needs. Study legislation, arbitration decisions, and collective bargaining contracts to assess industry trends. Allocate human resources, ensuring appropriate matches between personnel. Develop or administer special projects in areas such as pay equity, savings bond programs, day-care, and employee awards. Negotiate bargaining agreements and help interpret labor contracts. Investigate and report on industrial accidents for insurance carriers.
11-3131| Training and Development Managers|Prepare training budget for department or organization. Evaluate instructor performance and the effectiveness of training programs, providing recommendations for improvement. Analyze training needs to develop new training programs or modify and improve existing programs. Conduct or arrange for ongoing technical training and personal development classes for staff members. Plan, develop, and provide training and staff development programs, using knowledge of the effectiveness of methods such as classroom training, demonstrations, on-the-job training, meetings, conferences, and workshops. Conduct orientation sessions and arrange on-the-job training for new hires. Confer with management and conduct surveys to identify training needs based on projected production processes, changes, and other factors. Train instructors and supervisors in techniques and skills for training and dealing with employees. Develop and organize training manuals, multimedia visual aids, and other educational materials. Develop testing and evaluation procedures. Review and evaluate training and apprenticeship programs for compliance with government standards.
11-9013| Farmers, Ranchers, and Other Agricultural Managers|Manage nurseries that grow horticultural plants for sale to trade or retail customers, for display or exhibition, or for research. Identify plants as well as problems such as diseases, weeds, and insect pests. Tour work areas to observe work being done, to inspect crops, and to evaluate plant and soil conditions. Assign work schedules and duties to nursery or greenhouse staff, and supervise their work. Determine plant growing conditions, such as greenhouses, hydroponics, or natural settings, and set planting and care schedules. Apply pesticides and fertilizers to plants. Hire employees, and train them in gardening techniques. Select and purchase seeds, plant nutrients, disease control chemicals, and garden and lawn care equipment. Determine types and quantities of horticultural plants to be grown, based on budgets, projected sales volumes, or executive directives. Explain and enforce safety regulations and policies. Position and regulate plant irrigation systems, and program environmental and irrigation control computers. Inspect facilities and equipment for signs of disrepair, and perform necessary maintenance work. Coordinate clerical, record-keeping, inventory, requisitioning, and marketing activities. Prepare soil for planting, and plant or transplant seeds, bulbs, and cuttings. Confer with horticultural personnel to plan facility renovations or additions. Cut and prune trees, shrubs, flowers, and plants. Provide information to customers on the care of trees, shrubs, flowers, plants, and lawns. Construct structures and accessories such as greenhouses and benches. Negotiate contracts such as those for land leases or tree purchases. Graft plants.Inspect orchards or fields to determine crop maturity or condition or to detect disease or insect infestation. Direct crop production operations, such as planning, tilling, planting, fertilizing, cultivating, spraying, or harvesting. Monitor activities such as irrigation, chemical application, harvesting, milking, breeding, or grading to ensure adherence to safety regulations or standards. Plan crop activities based on factors such as crop maturity or weather conditions. Maintain financial, operational, production, or employment records for farms or ranches. Direct the breeding or raising of stock, such as cattle, poultry, or honeybees, using recognized breeding practices to ensure stock improvement. Obtain financing necessary for purchases of machinery, land, supplies, or livestock. Inspect farm or ranch equipment to ensure proper functioning. Negotiate with buyers for the sale, storage, or shipment of crops or livestock. Analyze soil to determine types or quantities of fertilizer required for maximum crop production. Evaluate marketing or sales alternatives for farm or ranch products. Prepare budgets or financial reports for farm or ranch operations. Determine types or quantities of crops or livestock to be raised, according to factors such as market conditions, federal programs or incentives, or soil conditions. Demonstrate or explain working techniques, practices, or safety regulations to farm or ranch workers. Hire, train, or supervise workers engaged in planting, cultivating, irrigating, harvesting, or marketing crops, or in raising livestock. Select or purchase machinery, equipment, livestock, or supplies, such as seed, feed, fertilizer, or chemicals. Analyze market conditions to determine acreage allocations. Inspect farm or ranch structures, such as buildings, fences, or roads, ordering repair or maintenance activities, as needed. Supervise the construction of farm or ranch structures, such as buildings, fences, drainage systems, wells, or roads. Operate or oversee the operations of dairy farms that produce bulk milk. Plan and direct development or production of hardier or higher-yield hybrid plant varieties. Buy or sell futures contracts or price farm products in advance of future sales to minimize risk or maximize profits. Monitor and adjust irrigation systems to distribute water according to crop needs and to avoid wasting water. Monitor pasture or grazing land use to ensure that livestock are properly fed or that conservation methods, such as rotational grazing, are used. Direct livestock or crop waste recycling operations. Replace chemical insecticides with environmentally friendly practices, such as adding pest-repelling plants to fields.Grow fish and shellfish as cash crops or for release into freshwater or saltwater. Supervise and train aquaculture and fish hatchery support workers. Collect and record growth, production, and environmental data. Conduct and supervise stock examinations to identify diseases or parasites. Account for and disburse funds. Devise and participate in activities to improve fish hatching and growth rates, and to prevent disease in hatcheries. Monitor environments to ensure maintenance of optimum conditions for aquatic life. Direct and monitor trapping and spawning of fish, egg incubation, and fry rearing, applying knowledge of management and fish culturing techniques. Coordinate the selection and maintenance of brood stock. Direct and monitor the transfer of mature fish to lakes, ponds, streams, or commercial tanks. Determine, administer, and execute policies relating to operations administration and standards, and facility maintenance. Collect information regarding techniques for fish collection and fertilization, spawn incubation, and treatment of spawn and fry. Determine how to allocate resources and to respond to unanticipated problems, such as insect infestation, drought, and fire. Operate and maintain cultivating and harvesting equipment. Confer with biologists, fish pathologists, and other fishery personnel to obtain data concerning fish habits, diseases, food, and environmental requirements. Prepare reports required by state and federal laws. Identify environmental requirements of a particular species, and select and oversee the preparation of sites for species cultivation. Scuba dive to inspect sea farm operations. Design and construct pens, floating stations, and collector strings or fences for sea farms.
11-9021| Construction Managers|Confer with supervisory personnel, owners, contractors, or design professionals to discuss and resolve matters, such as work procedures, complaints, or construction problems. Plan, schedule, or coordinate construction project activities to meet deadlines. Prepare and submit budget estimates, progress reports, or cost tracking reports. Inspect or review projects to monitor compliance with building and safety codes, or other regulations. Inspect or review projects to monitor compliance with environmental regulations. Plan, organize, or direct activities concerned with the construction or maintenance of structures, facilities, or systems. Study job specifications to determine appropriate construction methods. Investigate damage, accidents, or delays at construction sites to ensure that proper construction procedures are being followed. Prepare contracts or negotiate revisions to contractual agreements with architects, consultants, clients, suppliers, or subcontractors. Develop or implement quality control programs. Develop or implement environmental protection programs. Implement new or modified plans in response to delays, bad weather, or construction site emergencies. Interpret and explain plans and contract terms to representatives of the owner or developer, including administrative staff, workers, or clients. Perform or contract others to perform prebuilding assessments, such as conceptual cost estimating, rough order of magnitude estimating, feasibility, or energy efficiency, environmental, and sustainability assessments. Apply for and obtain all necessary permits or licenses. Evaluate construction methods and determine cost-effectiveness of plans, using computer models. Contract or oversee craft work, such as painting or plumbing. Direct and supervise construction or related workers. Determine labor requirements for dispatching workers to construction sites. Requisition supplies or materials to complete construction projects.
11-9031| Education Administrators, Preschool and Childcare Center/Program|Monitor students' progress and provide students and teachers with assistance in resolving any problems. Confer with parents and staff to discuss educational activities and policies and students' behavioral or learning problems. Set educational standards and goals and help establish policies, procedures, and programs to carry them out. Plan, direct, and monitor instructional methods and content of educational, vocational, or student activity programs. Direct and coordinate activities of teachers or administrators at daycare centers, schools, public agencies, or institutions. Prepare and maintain attendance, activity, planning, accounting, or personnel reports and records for officials and agencies, or direct preparation and maintenance activities. Recruit, hire, train, and evaluate primary and supplemental staff and recommend personnel actions for programs and services. Teach classes or courses or provide direct care to children. Determine allocations of funds for staff, supplies, materials, and equipment and authorize purchases. Determine the scope of educational program offerings and prepare drafts of program schedules and descriptions to estimate staffing and facility requirements. Review and evaluate new and current programs to determine their efficiency, effectiveness, and compliance with state, local, and federal regulations and recommend any necessary modifications. Review and interpret government codes and develop procedures to meet codes and to ensure facility safety, security, and maintenance. Prepare and submit budget requests or grant proposals to solicit program funding. Collect and analyze survey data, regulatory information, and demographic and employment trends to forecast enrollment patterns and the need for curriculum changes. Write articles, manuals, and other publications and assist in the distribution of promotional literature about programs and facilities. Inform businesses, community groups, and governmental agencies about educational needs, available programs, and program policies. Organize and direct committees of specialists, volunteers, and staff to provide technical and advisory assistance for programs.
11-9032| Education Administrators, Elementary and Secondary School|Enforce discipline and attendance rules. Confer with parents and staff to discuss educational activities, policies, and student behavioral or learning problems. Observe teaching methods and examine learning materials to evaluate and standardize curricula and teaching techniques, and to determine areas where improvement is needed. Collaborate with teachers to develop and maintain curriculum standards, develop mission statements, and set performance goals and objectives. Recruit, hire, train, and evaluate primary and supplemental staff. Evaluate curricula, teaching methods, and programs to determine their effectiveness, efficiency, and utilization, and to ensure that school activities comply with federal, state, and local regulations. Counsel and provide guidance to students regarding personal, academic, vocational, or behavioral issues. Establish, coordinate, and oversee particular programs across school districts, such as programs to evaluate student academic achievement. Set educational standards and goals, and help establish policies and procedures to carry them out. Plan and lead professional development activities for teachers, administrators, and support staff. Determine allocations of funds for staff, supplies, materials, and equipment, and authorize purchases. Prepare and submit budget requests and recommendations, or grant proposals to solicit program funding. Determine the scope of educational program offerings, and prepare drafts of course schedules and descriptions to estimate staffing and facility requirements. Prepare, maintain, or oversee the preparation and maintenance of attendance, activity, planning, or personnel reports and records. Review and approve new programs, or recommend modifications to existing programs, submitting program proposals for school board approval as necessary. Recommend personnel actions related to programs and services. Direct and coordinate activities of teachers, administrators, and support staff at schools, public agencies, and institutions. Participate in special education-related activities such as attending meetings and providing support to special educators throughout the district. Organize and direct committees of specialists, volunteers, and staff to provide technical and advisory assistance for programs. Direct and coordinate school maintenance services and the use of school facilities. Advocate for new schools to be built, or for existing facilities to be repaired or remodeled. Plan and develop instructional methods and content for educational, vocational, or student activity programs. Develop partnerships with businesses, communities, and other organizations to help meet identified educational needs and to provide school-to-work programs. Meet with federal, state, and local agencies to keep updated on policies and to discuss improvements for education programs. Plan, coordinate, and oversee school logistics programs such as bus and food services. Review and interpret government codes, and develop programs to ensure adherence to codes and facility safety, security, and maintenance. Collect and analyze survey data, regulatory information, and data on demographic and employment trends to forecast enrollment patterns and curriculum change needs. Coordinate and direct extracurricular activities and programs such as after-school events and athletic contests. Mentor and support administrative staff members such as superintendents and principals. Teach classes or courses to students. Write articles, manuals, and other publications, and assist in the distribution of promotional literature about facilities and programs.
11-9033| Education Administrators, Postsecondary|Advise students on issues such as course selection, progress toward graduation, and career decisions. Direct, coordinate, and evaluate the activities of personnel, including support staff, engaged in administering academic institutions, departments or alumni organizations. Recruit, hire, train, and terminate departmental personnel. Participate in student recruitment, selection, and admission, making admissions recommendations when required to do so. Formulate strategic plans for the institution. Plan, administer, and control budgets, maintain financial records, and produce financial reports. Establish operational policies and procedures and make any necessary modifications, based on analysis of operations, demographics, and other research information. Participate in faculty and college committee activities. Represent institutions at community and campus events, in meetings with other institution personnel, and during accreditation processes. Promote the university by participating in community, state, and national events or meetings, and by developing partnerships with industry and secondary education institutions. Appoint individuals to faculty positions, and evaluate their performance. Direct activities of administrative departments such as admissions, registration, and career services. Assess and collect tuition and fees. Teach courses within their department. Consult with government regulatory and licensing agencies to ensure the institution's conformance with applicable standards. Coordinate the production and dissemination of university publications such as course catalogs and class schedules. Develop curricula, and recommend curricula revisions and additions. Determine course schedules, and coordinate teaching assignments and room assignments to ensure optimum use of buildings and equipment. Provide assistance to faculty and staff in duties such as teaching classes, conducting orientation programs, issuing transcripts, and scheduling events. Write grants to procure external funding, and supervise grant-funded projects. Review registration statistics, and consult with faculty officials to develop registration policies. Review student misconduct reports requiring disciplinary action, and counsel students regarding such reports. Direct and participate in institutional fundraising activities, and encourage alumni participation in such activities. Plan and promote sporting events and social, cultural, and recreational activities. Confer with other academic staff to explain and formulate admission requirements and course credit policies. Direct scholarship, fellowship, and loan programs, performing activities such as selecting recipients and distributing aid. Audit the financial status of student organizations and facility accounts.
11-9041| Architectural and Engineering Managers|Manage the coordination and overall integration of technical activities in architecture or engineering projects. Direct, review, or approve project design changes. Confer with management, production, or marketing staff to discuss project specifications or procedures. Present and explain proposals, reports, or findings to clients. Consult or negotiate with clients to prepare project specifications. Prepare budgets, bids, or contracts. Assess project feasibility by analyzing technology, resource needs, and market demand. Direct recruitment, placement, and evaluation of architecture or engineering project staff. Review, recommend, or approve contracts or cost estimates. Develop or implement policies, standards, or procedures for engineering and technical work. Plan or direct the installation, testing, operation, maintenance, or repair of facilities or equipment. Perform administrative functions, such as reviewing or writing reports, approving expenditures, enforcing rules, or purchasing of materials or services. Establish scientific or technical goals within broad outlines provided by top management. Evaluate environmental regulations or social pressures related to environmental issues to inform strategic or operational decision-making. Solicit project support by conferring with officials or providing information to the public. Develop or implement programs to improve sustainability or reduce the environmental impacts of engineering or architecture activities or operations. Evaluate the environmental impacts of engineering, architecture, or research and development activities.
11-9051|Food Service Managers|Monitor compliance with health and fire regulations regarding food preparation and serving, and building maintenance in lodging and dining facilities. Monitor food preparation methods, portion sizes, and garnishing and presentation of food to ensure that food is prepared and presented in an acceptable manner. Count money and make bank deposits. Investigate and resolve complaints regarding food quality, service, or accommodations. Coordinate assignments of cooking personnel to ensure economical use of food and timely preparation. Schedule and receive food and beverage deliveries, checking delivery contents to verify product quality and quantity. Monitor budgets and payroll records, and review financial transactions to ensure that expenditures are authorized and budgeted. Maintain food and equipment inventories, and keep inventory records. Schedule staff hours and assign duties. Establish standards for personnel performance and customer service. Perform some food preparation or service tasks, such as cooking, clearing tables, and serving food and drinks when necessary. Plan menus and food utilization, based on anticipated number of guests, nutritional value, palatability, popularity, and costs. Keep records required by government agencies regarding sanitation or food subsidies. Test cooked food by tasting and smelling it to ensure palatability and flavor conformity. Organize and direct worker training programs, resolve personnel problems, hire new staff, and evaluate employee performance in dining and lodging facilities. Order and purchase equipment and supplies. Review work procedures and operational problems to determine ways to improve service, performance, or safety. Assess staffing needs and recruit staff, using methods such as newspaper advertisements or attendance at job fairs. Arrange for equipment maintenance and repairs, and coordinate a variety of services, such as waste removal and pest control. Record the number, type, and cost of items sold to determine which items may be unpopular or less profitable. Review menus and analyze recipes to determine labor and overhead costs, and assign prices to menu items. Monitor employee and patron activities to ensure liquor regulations are obeyed. Greet guests, escort them to their seats, and present them with menus and wine lists. Schedule use of facilities or catering services for events such as banquets or receptions, and negotiate details of arrangements with clients. Estimate food, liquor, wine, and other beverage consumption to anticipate amounts to be purchased or requisitioned. Create specialty dishes and develop recipes to be used in dining facilities. Establish and enforce nutritional standards for dining establishments, based on accepted industry standards. Take dining reservations.
11-9061| Funeral Service Managers|Consult with families or friends of the deceased to arrange funeral details, such as obituary notice wording, casket selection, or plans for services. Direct and supervise work of embalmers, funeral attendants, death certificate clerks, cosmetologists, or other staff. Schedule funerals, burials, or cremations. Sell funeral services, products, or merchandise to clients. Monitor funeral service operations to ensure that they comply with applicable policies, regulations, and laws. Offer counsel and comfort to families and friends of the deceased. Negotiate contracts for prearranged funeral services. Respond to customer complaints, legal inquiries, payment negotiations, or other post-service matters. Plan and implement changes to service offerings to meet community needs or increase funeral home revenues. Direct or monitor administrative, support, repair, or maintenance services for funeral homes. Schedule work hours for funeral home or contract employees. Set marketing, sales, or other financial goals for funeral service establishments and monitor progress toward these goals. Explain goals, policies, or procedures to staff members. Complete and maintain records such as state-required documents, tracking documents, or product inventories. Evaluate the performance of vendors, contract employees, or other service providers to ensure quality and cost-efficiency. Set prices or credit terms for funeral products or services. Review financial statements, sales or activity reports, or other performance data to identify opportunities for cost reductions or service improvements. Identify skill development needs for funeral home staff. Attend or make presentations at community events to promote funeral home services or build community relationships. Plan and implement sales promotions or other marketing strategies and activities for funeral home operations. Interview and hire new employees. Conduct market research and analyze industry trends.
11-9071| Gaming Managers|Remove suspected cheaters, such as card counters or other players who may have systems that shift the odds of winning to their favor. Circulate among gaming tables to ensure that operations are conducted properly, that dealers follow house rules, or that players are not cheating. Explain and interpret house rules, such as game rules or betting limits. Track supplies of money to tables and perform any required paperwork. Resolve customer complaints regarding problems such as payout errors. Market or promote the casino to bring in business. Prepare work schedules and station arrangements and keep attendance records. Set and maintain a bank and table limit for each game. Maintain familiarity with all games used at a facility, as well as strategies or tricks employed in those games. Monitor staffing levels to ensure that games and tables are adequately staffed for each shift, arranging for staff rotations and breaks and locating substitute employees as necessary. Review operational expenses, budget estimates, betting accounts, or collection reports for accuracy. Train new workers or evaluate their performance. Interview and hire workers. Direct the distribution of complimentary hotel rooms, meals, or other discounts or free items given to players, based on their length of play and betting totals. Establish policies on issues such as the type of gambling offered and the odds, the extension of credit, or the serving of food and beverages. Record, collect, or pay off bets, issuing receipts as necessary. Direct the compilation of summary sheets that show wager amounts and payoffs for races or events. Monitor credit extended to players. Notify board attendants of table vacancies so that waiting patrons can play.
11-9081|Lodging Managers|Inspect guest rooms, public areas, and grounds for cleanliness and appearance. Greet and register guests. Answer inquiries pertaining to hotel policies and services, and resolve occupants' complaints. Monitor the revenue activity of the hotel or facility. Train staff members. Observe and monitor staff performance to ensure efficient operations and adherence to facility's policies and procedures. Coordinate front-office activities of hotels or motels, and resolve problems. Participate in financial activities, such as the setting of room rates, the establishment of budgets, and the allocation of funds to departments. Collect payments and record data pertaining to funds and expenditures. Manage and maintain temporary or permanent lodging facilities. Provide assistance to staff members by inspecting rooms, setting tables, or doing laundry. Interview and hire applicants. Prepare required paperwork pertaining to departmental functions. Confer and cooperate with other managers to ensure coordination of hotel activities. Assign duties to workers, and schedule shifts. Receive and process advance registration payments, mail letters of confirmation, or return checks when registrations cannot be accepted. Show, rent, or assign accommodations. Arrange telephone answering services, deliver mail and packages, or answer questions regarding locations for eating and entertainment. Develop and implement policies and procedures for the operation of a department or establishment. Purchase supplies, and arrange for outside services, such as deliveries, laundry, maintenance and repair, and trash collection. Perform marketing and public relations activities. Organize and coordinate the work of staff and convention personnel for meetings to be held at a particular facility. Meet with clients to schedule and plan details of conventions, banquets, receptions and other functions. Book tickets for guests for local tours and attractions.
11-9111| Medical and Health Services Managers|Conduct and administer fiscal operations, including accounting, planning budgets, authorizing expenditures, establishing rates for services, and coordinating financial reporting. Direct, supervise and evaluate work activities of medical, nursing, technical, clerical, service, maintenance, and other personnel. Maintain communication between governing boards, medical staff, and department heads by attending board meetings and coordinating interdepartmental functioning. Review and analyze facility activities and data to aid planning and cash and risk management and to improve service utilization. Plan, implement and administer programs and services in a health care or medical facility, including personnel administration, training, and coordination of medical, nursing and physical plant staff. Direct or conduct recruitment, hiring and training of personnel. Establish work schedules and assignments for staff, according to workload, space and equipment availability. Maintain awareness of advances in medicine, computerized diagnostic and treatment equipment, data processing technology, government regulations, health insurance changes, and financing options. Monitor the use of diagnostic services, inpatient beds, facilities, and staff to ensure effective use of resources and assess the need for additional staff, equipment, and services. Develop and maintain computerized record management systems to store and process data such as personnel activities and information, and to produce reports. Establish objectives and evaluative or operational criteria for units they manage. Prepare activity reports to inform management of the status and implementation plans of programs, services, and quality initiatives. Inspect facilities and recommend building or equipment modifications to ensure emergency readiness and compliance to access, safety, and sanitation regulations. Develop and implement organizational policies and procedures for the facility or medical unit. Manage change in integrated health care delivery systems, such as work restructuring, technological innovations, and shifts in the focus of care. Consult with medical, business, and community groups to discuss service problems, respond to community needs, enhance public relations, coordinate activities and plans, and promote health programs.
11-9121| Natural Sciences Managers|Confer with scientists, engineers, regulators, or others to plan or review projects or to provide technical assistance. Develop client relationships and communicate with clients to explain proposals, present research findings, establish specifications, or discuss project status. Plan or direct research, development, or production activities. Review project activities and prepare and review research, testing, or operational reports. Determine scientific or technical goals within broad outlines provided by top management and make detailed plans to accomplish these goals. Develop or implement policies, standards, or procedures for the architectural, scientific, or technical work performed to ensure regulatory compliance or operations enhancement. Hire, supervise, or evaluate engineers, technicians, researchers, or other staff. Design or coordinate successive phases of problem analysis, solution proposals, or testing. Recruit personnel or oversee the development or maintenance of staff competence. Prepare project proposals. Conduct own research in field of expertise. Prepare and administer budgets, approve and review expenditures, and prepare financial reports. Make presentations at professional meetings to further knowledge in the field. Develop innovative technology or train staff for its implementation. Provide for stewardship of plant or animal resources or habitats, studying land use, monitoring animal populations, or providing shelter, resources, or medical treatment for animals. Advise or assist in obtaining patents or meeting other legal requirements.
11-9131|Postmasters and Mail Superintendents|Organize and supervise activities such as the processing of incoming and outgoing mail. Direct and coordinate operational, management, and supportive services of one or a number of postal facilities. Resolve customer complaints. Hire and train employees, and evaluate their performance. Prepare employee work schedules. Prepare and submit detailed and summary reports of post office activities to designated supervisors. Negotiate labor disputes. Collect rents for post office boxes. Issue and cash money orders. Inform the public of available services, and of postal laws and regulations. Select and train postmasters and managers of associate postal units.
11-9141| Property, Real Estate, and Community Association Managers|Manage and oversee operations, maintenance, administration, and improvement of commercial, industrial, or residential properties. Plan, schedule, and coordinate general maintenance, major repairs, and remodeling or construction projects for commercial or residential properties. Direct collection of monthly assessments, rental fees, and deposits and payment of insurance premiums, mortgage, taxes, and incurred operating expenses. Inspect grounds, facilities, and equipment routinely to determine necessity of repairs or maintenance. Act as liaisons between on-site managers or tenants and owners. Meet with prospective tenants to show properties, explain terms of occupancy, and provide information about local areas. Market vacant space to prospective tenants through leasing agents, advertising, or other methods. Prepare detailed budgets and financial reports for properties. Maintain records of sales, rental or usage activity, special permits issued, maintenance and operating costs, or property availability. Direct and coordinate the activities of staff and contract personnel and evaluate their performance. Meet with clients to negotiate management and service contracts, determine priorities, and discuss the financial and operational status of properties. Solicit and analyze bids from contractors for repairs, renovations, and maintenance. Prepare and administer contracts for provision of property services such as cleaning, maintenance, and security services. Investigate complaints, disturbances and violations and resolve problems following management rules and regulations. Review rents to ensure that they are in line with rental markets. Maintain contact with insurance carriers, fire and police departments, and other agencies to ensure protection and compliance with codes and regulations. Meet with boards of directors and committees to discuss and resolve legal and environmental issues or disputes between neighbors. Purchase building and maintenance supplies, equipment, or furniture. Determine and certify the eligibility of prospective tenants, following government regulations. Confer regularly with community association members to ensure their needs are being met. Negotiate the sale, lease, or development of property and complete or review appropriate documents and forms. Clean common areas, change light bulbs, and make minor property repairs. Negotiate short- and long-term loans to finance construction and ownership of structures. Confer with legal authorities to ensure that renting and advertising practices are not discriminatory and that properties comply with state and federal regulations. Analyze information on property values, taxes, zoning, population growth, and traffic volume and patterns to determine if properties should be acquired.
11-9151| Social and Community Service Managers|Evaluate the work of staff and volunteers to ensure that programs are of appropriate quality and that resources are used effectively. Provide direct service and support to individuals or clients, such as handling a referral for child advocacy issues, conducting a needs evaluation, or resolving complaints. Recruit, interview, and hire or sign up volunteers and staff. Establish and maintain relationships with other agencies and organizations in community to meet community needs and to ensure that services are not duplicated. Establish and oversee administrative procedures to meet objectives set by boards of directors or senior management. Direct activities of professional and technical staff members and volunteers. Plan and administer budgets for programs, equipment, and support services. Participate in the determination of organizational policies regarding such issues as participant eligibility, program requirements, and program benefits. Prepare and maintain records and reports, such as budgets, personnel records, or training manuals. Research and analyze member or community needs to determine program directions and goals. Implement and evaluate staff, volunteer, or community training programs. Represent organizations in relations with governmental and media institutions. Act as consultants to agency staff and other community programs regarding the interpretation of program-related federal, state, and county regulations and policies. Speak to community groups to explain and interpret agency purposes, programs, and policies. Direct fundraising activities and the preparation of public relations materials. Analyze proposed legislation, regulations, or rule changes to determine how agency services could be impacted.
11-9161| Emergency Management Directors|Coordinate disaster response or crisis management activities, such as ordering evacuations, opening public shelters, and implementing special needs plans and programs. Prepare plans that outline operating procedures to be used in response to disasters or emergencies, such as hurricanes, nuclear accidents, and terrorist attacks, and in recovery from these events. Develop and maintain liaisons with municipalities, county departments, and similar entities to facilitate plan development, response effort coordination, and exchanges of personnel and equipment. Design and administer emergency or disaster preparedness training courses that teach people how to effectively respond to major emergencies and disasters. Keep informed of activities or changes that could affect the likelihood of an emergency, as well as those that could affect response efforts and details of plan implementation. Develop and perform tests and evaluations of emergency management plans in accordance with state and federal regulations. Maintain and update all resource materials associated with emergency preparedness plans. Collaborate with other officials to prepare and analyze damage assessments following disasters or emergencies. Prepare emergency situation status reports that describe response and recovery efforts, needs, and preliminary damage assessments. Propose alteration of emergency response procedures based on regulatory changes, technological changes, or knowledge gained from outcomes of previous emergency situations. Inspect facilities and equipment, such as emergency management centers and communications equipment, to determine their operational and functional capabilities in emergency situations. Consult with officials of local and area governments, schools, hospitals, and other institutions to determine their needs and capabilities in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency. Review emergency plans of individual organizations, such as medical facilities, to ensure their adequacy. Attend meetings, conferences, and workshops related to emergency management to learn new information and to develop working relationships with other emergency management specialists. Develop instructional materials for the public and make presentations to citizens' groups to provide information on emergency plans and their implementation processes. Keep informed of federal, state, and local regulations affecting emergency plans and ensure that plans adhere to these regulations. Apply for federal funding for emergency-management-related needs and administer and report on the progress of such grants. Train local groups in the preparation of long-term plans that are compatible with federal and state plans. Study emergency plans used elsewhere to gather information for plan development. Conduct surveys to determine the types of emergency-related needs to be addressed in disaster planning or provide technical support to others conducting such surveys. Provide communities with assistance in applying for federal funding for emergency management facilities, radiological instrumentation, and other related items.
13-1011| Agents and Business Managers of Artists, Performers, and Athletes|Collect fees, commissions, or other payments, according to contract terms. Confer with clients to develop strategies for their careers, and to explain actions taken on their behalf. Develop contacts with individuals and organizations, and apply effective strategies and techniques to ensure their clients' success. Schedule promotional or performance engagements for clients. Negotiate with managers, promoters, union officials, and other persons regarding clients' contractual rights and obligations. Keep informed of industry trends and deals. Manage business and financial affairs for clients, such as arranging travel and lodging, selling tickets, and directing marketing and advertising activities. Conduct auditions or interviews to evaluate potential clients. Arrange meetings concerning issues involving their clients. Prepare periodic accounting statements for clients. Advise clients on financial and legal matters such as investments and taxes. Obtain information about or inspect performance facilities, equipment, and accommodations to ensure that they meet specifications.
13-1021| Buyers and Purchasing Agents, Farm Products|Purchase, for further processing or for resale, farm products such as milk, grains, or Christmas trees. Arrange for processing or resale of purchased products. Negotiate contracts with farmers for the production or purchase of farm products. Arrange for transportation or storage of purchased products. Maintain records of business transactions and product inventories, reporting data to companies or government agencies as necessary. Review orders to determine product types and quantities required to meet demand. Examine or test crops or products to estimate their value, determine their grade, or locate any evidence of disease or insect damage. Coordinate or direct activities of workers engaged in cutting, transporting, storing, or milling products and maintaining records. Sell supplies, such as seed, feed, fertilizers, or insecticides, arranging for loans or financing as necessary. Advise farm groups or growers on land preparation or livestock care techniques that will maximize the quantity and quality of production.
13-1022| Wholesale and Retail Buyers, Except Farm Products|Buy merchandise or commodities for resale to wholesale or retail consumers. Negotiate prices, discount terms, or transportation arrangements with suppliers. Examine, select, order, or purchase merchandise consistent with quality, quantity, specification requirements, or other factors, such as environmental soundness. Recommend mark-up rates, markdown rates, or merchandise selling prices. Obtain information about customer needs or preferences by conferring with sales or purchasing personnel. Authorize payment of invoices or return of merchandise. Monitor and analyze sales records, trends, or economic conditions to anticipate consumer buying patterns and determine what the company will sell and how much inventory is needed. Collaborate with vendors to obtain or develop desired products. Inspect merchandise or products to determine quality, value, or yield. Conduct sales meetings to introduce new merchandise. Consult with store or merchandise managers about budgets or goods to be purchased. Provide clerks with information to print on price tags, such as price, mark-ups or mark-downs, manufacturer number, season code, or style number. Train or supervise sales or clerical staff. Determine which products should be featured in advertising, the advertising medium to be used, or when the ads should be run. Monitor competitors' sales activities by following their advertisements in newspapers or other media. Analyze environmental aspects of competing merchandise when making buying decisions. Compare transportation options to determine the most energy efficient options.
13-1023| Purchasing Agents, Except Wholesale, Retail, and Farm Products|Prepare purchase orders, solicit bid proposals, and review requisitions for goods and services. Purchase the highest quality merchandise at the lowest possible price and in correct amounts. Monitor and follow applicable laws and regulations. Research and evaluate suppliers based on price, quality, selection, service, support, availability, reliability, production and distribution capabilities, and the supplier's reputation and history. Negotiate, renegotiate, and administer contracts with suppliers, vendors, and other representatives. Analyze price proposals, financial reports, and other data and information to determine reasonable prices. Maintain and review computerized or manual records of items purchased, costs, deliveries, product performance, and inventories. Write and review product specifications, maintaining a working technical knowledge of the goods or services to be purchased. Formulate policies and procedures for bid proposals and procurement of goods and services. Evaluate and monitor contract performance to ensure compliance with contractual obligations and to determine need for changes. Monitor shipments to ensure that goods come in on time and resolve problems related to undelivered goods. Hire, train, or supervise purchasing clerks, buyers, and expediters. Review catalogs, industry periodicals, directories, trade journals, and Internet sites and consult with other department personnel to locate necessary goods and services. Monitor changes affecting supply and demand, tracking market conditions, price trends, or futures markets. Confer with staff, users, and vendors to discuss defective or unacceptable goods or services and determine corrective action. Study sales records and inventory levels of current stock to develop strategic purchasing programs that facilitate employee access to supplies. Interview vendors and visit suppliers' plants and distribution centers to examine and learn about products, services, and prices. Arrange the payment of duty and freight charges.
13-1031| Claims Adjusters, Examiners, and Investigators|Investigate, evaluate, and settle claims, applying technical knowledge and human relations skills to effect fair and prompt disposal of cases and to contribute to a reduced loss ratio. Adjust reserves or provide reserve recommendations to ensure that reserve activities are consistent with corporate policies. Resolve complex, severe exposure claims, using high service oriented file handling. Pay and process claims within designated authority level. Examine claims investigated by insurance adjusters, further investigating questionable claims to determine whether to authorize payments. Verify and analyze data used in settling claims to ensure that claims are valid and that settlements are made according to company practices and procedures. Enter claim payments, reserves and new claims on computer system, inputting concise yet sufficient file documentation. Confer with legal counsel on claims requiring litigation. Contact or interview claimants, doctors, medical specialists, or employers to get additional information. Maintain claim files, such as records of settled claims and an inventory of claims requiring detailed analysis. Present cases and participate in their discussion at claim committee meetings. Supervise claims adjusters to ensure that adjusters have followed proper methods. Conduct detailed bill reviews to implement sound litigation management and expense control. Report overpayments, underpayments, and other irregularities. Communicate with reinsurance brokers to obtain information necessary for processing claims. Prepare reports to be submitted to company's data processing department.Examine claims forms and other records to determine insurance coverage. Investigate and assess damage to property and create or review property damage estimates. Interview or correspond with claimants, witnesses, police, physicians, or other relevant parties to determine claim settlement, denial, or review. Review police reports, medical treatment records, medical bills, or physical property damage to determine the extent of liability. Negotiate claim settlements and recommend litigation when settlement cannot be negotiated. Analyze information gathered by investigation and report findings and recommendations. Interview or correspond with agents and claimants to correct errors or omissions and to investigate questionable claims. Prepare report of findings of investigation. Refer questionable claims to investigator or claims adjuster for investigation or settlement. Collect evidence to support contested claims in court. Obtain credit information from banks and other credit services. Examine titles to property to determine validity and act as company agent in transactions with property owners. Communicate with former associates to verify employment record and to obtain background information regarding persons or businesses applying for credit.
13-1032| Insurance Appraisers, Auto Damage|Estimate parts and labor to repair damage, using standard automotive labor and parts cost manuals and knowledge of automotive repair. Review repair cost estimates with automobile repair shop to secure agreement on cost of repairs. Examine damaged vehicle to determine extent of structural, body, mechanical, electrical, or interior damage. Evaluate practicality of repair as opposed to payment of market value of vehicle before accident. Determine salvage value on total-loss vehicle. Prepare insurance forms to indicate repair cost estimates and recommendations. Arrange to have damage appraised by another appraiser to resolve disagreement with shop on repair cost.
13-1041| Compliance Officers|Examine permits, licenses, applications, and records to ensure compliance with licensing requirements. Prepare written, oral, tabular, and graphic reports summarizing requirements and regulations, including enforcement and chain of custody documentation. Determine the nature of code violations and actions to be taken, and issue written notices of violation; participate in enforcement hearings as necessary. Prepare, organize, and maintain inspection records. Verify that hazardous chemicals are handled, stored, and disposed of in accordance with regulations. Interview individuals to determine the nature of suspected violations and to obtain evidence of violations. Research and keep informed of pertinent information and developments in areas such as EPA laws and regulations. Learn and observe proper safety precautions, rules, regulations, and practices so that unsafe conditions can be recognized and proper safety protocols implemented. Monitor follow-up actions in cases where violations were found, and review compliance monitoring reports. Inspect waste pretreatment, treatment, and disposal facilities and systems for conformance to federal, state, or local regulations. Investigate complaints and suspected violations regarding illegal dumping, pollution, pesticides, product quality, or labeling laws. Evaluate label information for accuracy and conformance to regulatory requirements. Determine sampling locations and methods, and collect water or wastewater samples for analysis, preserving samples with appropriate containers and preservation methods. Inform individuals and groups of pollution control regulations and inspection findings, and explain how problems can be corrected. Review and evaluate applications for registration of products containing dangerous materials, or for pollution control discharge permits. Observe and record field conditions, gathering, interpreting, and reporting data such as flow meter readings and chemical levels. Determine which sites and violation reports to investigate, and coordinate compliance and enforcement activities with other government agencies. Inform health professionals, property owners, and the public about harmful properties and related problems of water pollution and contaminated wastewater. Participate in the development of spill prevention programs and hazardous waste rules and regulations, and recommend corrective actions for hazardous waste problems. Analyze and implement state, federal or local requirements as necessary to maintain approved pretreatment, pollution prevention, and storm water runoff programs. Prepare data to calculate sewer service charges and capacity fees. Perform laboratory tests on samples collected, such as analyzing the content of contaminated wastewater. Maintain and repair materials, worksites, and equipment. Research and perform calculations related to landscape allowances, discharge volumes, production-based and alternative limits, and wastewater strength classifications, then make recommendations and complete documentation.Warn violators of infractions or penalties. Evaluate applications, records, or documents to gather information about eligibility or liability issues. Advise licensees or other individuals or groups concerning licensing, permit, or passport regulations. Prepare reports of activities, evaluations, recommendations, or decisions. Report law or regulation violations to appropriate boards or agencies. Confer with or interview officials, technical or professional specialists, or applicants to obtain information or to clarify facts relevant to licensing decisions. Issue licenses to individuals meeting standards. Collect fees for licenses. Administer oral, written, road, or flight tests to license applicants. Visit establishments to verify that valid licenses or permits are displayed and that licensing standards are being upheld. Score tests and observe equipment operation and control to rate ability of applicants. Prepare correspondence to inform concerned parties of licensing decisions or appeals processes.Investigate employment practices or alleged violations of laws to document and correct discriminatory factors. Prepare reports related to investigations of equal opportunity complaints. Interview persons involved in equal opportunity complaints to verify case information. Study equal opportunity complaints to clarify issues. Interpret civil rights laws and equal opportunity regulations for individuals or employers. Meet with persons involved in equal opportunity complaints to arbitrate and settle disputes. Develop guidelines for nondiscriminatory employment practices. Monitor the implementation and impact of guidelines for nondiscriminatory employment practices. Coordinate, monitor, or revise complaint procedures to ensure timely processing and review of complaints. Provide information, technical assistance, or training to supervisors, managers, or employees on topics such as employee supervision, hiring, grievance procedures, or staff development. Conduct surveys and evaluate findings to determine if systematic discrimination exists. Prepare reports of selection, survey, or other statistics and recommendations for corrective action. Meet with job search committees or coordinators to explain the role of the equal opportunity coordinator, to provide resources for advertising, or to explain expectations for future contacts. Act as liaisons between minority placement agencies and employers or between job search committees and other equal opportunity administrators. Counsel newly hired members of minority or disadvantaged groups, informing them about details of civil rights laws. Review company contracts to determine actions required to meet governmental equal opportunity provisions. Verify that all job descriptions are submitted for review and approval and that descriptions meet regulatory standards. Consult with community representatives to develop technical assistance agreements in accordance with governmental regulations.Prepare correspondence, reports of inspections or investigations or recommendations for action. Examine records, reports, or other documents to establish facts or detect discrepancies. Monitor investigations of suspected offenders to ensure that they are conducted in accordance with constitutional requirements. Collect, identify, evaluate, or preserve case evidence. Inspect manufactured or processed products to ensure compliance with contract specifications or legal requirements. Coordinate with or assist law enforcement agencies in matters of mutual concern. Testify in court or at administrative proceedings concerning investigation findings. Investigate applications for special licenses or permits, as well as alleged license or permit violations. Inspect government-owned equipment or materials in the possession of private contractors to ensure compliance with contracts or regulations or to prevent misuse. Recommend legal or administrative action to protect government property. Submit samples of products to government laboratories for testing, as required. Locate and interview plaintiffs, witnesses, or representatives of business or government to gather facts relevant to inspections or alleged violations.Perform medicolegal examinations and autopsies, conducting preliminary examinations of the body to identify victims, locate signs of trauma, and identify factors that would indicate time of death. Inquire into the cause, manner, and circumstances of human deaths and establish the identities of deceased persons. Complete death certificates, including the assignment of cause and manner of death. Observe and record the positions and conditions of bodies and related evidence. Observe, record, and preserve any objects or personal property related to deaths, including objects such as medication containers and suicide notes. Interview persons present at death scenes to obtain information useful in determining the manner of death. Arrange for the next of kin to be notified of deaths. Complete reports and forms required to finalize cases. Collect and document any pertinent medical history information. Direct activities of workers conducting autopsies, performing pathological and toxicological analyses, and preparing documents for permanent records. Confer with officials of public health and law enforcement agencies to coordinate interdepartmental activities. Provide information concerning the circumstances of death to relatives of the deceased. Locate and document information regarding the next of kin, including their relationship to the deceased and the status of notification attempts. Inventory personal effects recovered from bodies, such as jewelry or wallets. Coordinate the release of personal effects to authorized persons and facilitate the disposition of unclaimed corpses and personal effects. Remove or supervise removal of bodies from death scenes, using the proper equipment and supplies, and arrange for transportation to morgues. Testify at inquests, hearings, and court trials. Collect wills, burial instructions, and other documentation needed for investigations and for handling of the remains. Record the disposition of minor children, as well as details of arrangements made for their care. Witness and certify deaths that are the result of a judicial order.Coordinate, prepare, or review regulatory submissions for domestic or international projects. Provide technical review of data or reports that will be incorporated into regulatory submissions to assure scientific rigor, accuracy, and clarity of presentation. Review product promotional materials, labeling, batch records, specification sheets, or test methods for compliance with applicable regulations and policies. Maintain current knowledge base of existing and emerging regulations, standards, or guidance documents. Interpret regulatory rules or rule changes and ensure that they are communicated through corporate policies and procedures. Determine the types of regulatory submissions or internal documentation that are required in situations such as proposed device changes or labeling changes. Advise project teams on subjects such as premarket regulatory requirements, export and labeling requirements, or clinical study compliance issues. Prepare or maintain technical files as necessary to obtain and sustain product approval. Coordinate efforts associated with the preparation of regulatory documents or submissions. Prepare or direct the preparation of additional information or responses as requested by regulatory agencies. Analyze product complaints and make recommendations regarding their reportability. Escort government inspectors during inspections and provide post-inspection follow-up information as requested. Communicate with regulatory agencies regarding pre-submission strategies, potential regulatory pathways, compliance test requirements, or clarification and follow-up of submissions under review. Identify relevant guidance documents, international standards, or consensus standards and provide interpretive assistance. Review clinical protocols to ensure collection of data needed for regulatory submissions. Compile and maintain regulatory documentation databases or systems. Recommend changes to company procedures in response to changes in regulations or standards. Obtain and distribute updated information regarding domestic or international laws, guidelines, or standards. Write or update standard operating procedures, work instructions, or policies. Participate in internal or external audits. Develop or conduct employee regulatory training. Prepare responses to customer requests for information, such as product data, written regulatory affairs statements, surveys, or questionnaires. Review adverse drug reactions and file all related reports in accordance with regulatory agency guidelines. Coordinate recall or market withdrawal activities as necessary. Direct the collection and preparation of laboratory samples as requested by regulatory agencies.
13-1051| Cost Estimators|Consult with clients, vendors, personnel in other departments or construction foremen to discuss and formulate estimates and resolve issues. Analyze blueprints and other documentation to prepare time, cost, materials, and labor estimates. Prepare estimates for use in selecting vendors or subcontractors. Confer with engineers, architects, owners, contractors and subcontractors on changes and adjustments to cost estimates. Prepare estimates used by management for purposes such as planning, organizing, and scheduling work. Prepare cost and expenditure statements and other necessary documentation at regular intervals for the duration of the project. Assess cost effectiveness of products, projects or services, tracking actual costs relative to bids as the project develops. Set up cost monitoring and reporting systems and procedures. Conduct special studies to develop and establish standard hour and related cost data or to effect cost reduction. Review material and labor requirements to decide whether it is more cost-effective to produce or purchase components. Prepare and maintain a directory of suppliers, contractors and subcontractors. Establish and maintain tendering process, and conduct negotiations.
13-1071| Human Resources Specialists|Prepare or maintain employment records related to events such as hiring, termination, leaves, transfers, or promotions, using human resources management system software. Interpret and explain human resources policies, procedures, laws, standards, or regulations. Hire employees and process hiring-related paperwork. Inform job applicants of details such as duties and responsibilities, compensation, benefits, schedules, working conditions, or promotion opportunities. Address employee relations issues, such as harassment allegations, work complaints, or other employee concerns. Maintain current knowledge of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) and affirmative action guidelines and laws, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Schedule or conduct new employee orientations. Maintain and update human resources documents, such as organizational charts, employee handbooks or directories, or performance evaluation forms. Confer with management to develop or implement personnel policies or procedures. Select qualified job applicants or refer them to managers, making hiring recommendations when appropriate. Review employment applications and job orders to match applicants with job requirements. Conduct reference or background checks on job applicants. Conduct exit interviews and ensure that necessary employment termination paperwork is completed. Perform searches for qualified job candidates, using sources such as computer databases, networking, Internet recruiting resources, media advertisements, job fairs, recruiting firms, or employee referrals. Provide management with information or training related to interviewing, performance appraisals, counseling techniques, or documentation of performance issues. Contact job applicants to inform them of the status of their applications. Interview job applicants to obtain information on work history, training, education, or job skills. Develop or implement recruiting strategies to meet current or anticipated staffing needs. Analyze employment-related data and prepare required reports. Advise management on organizing, preparing, or implementing recruiting or retention programs. Schedule or administer skill, intelligence, psychological, or drug tests for current or prospective employees. Evaluate recruitment or selection criteria to ensure conformance to professional, statistical, or testing standards, recommending revisions, as needed. Review and evaluate applicant qualifications or eligibility for specified licensing, according to established guidelines and designated licensing codes. Evaluate selection or testing techniques by conducting research or follow-up activities and conferring with management or supervisory personnel.
13-1074| Farm Labor Contractors|Pay wages of contracted farm laborers. Provide food, drinking water, and field sanitation facilities to contracted workers. Recruit and hire agricultural workers. Employ foremen to deal directly with workers when recruiting, hiring, instructing, assigning tasks, and enforcing work rules. Supervise the work of contracted employees. Furnish tools for employee use. Direct and transport workers to appropriate work sites. Provide check-cashing services to employees.
13-1075| Labor Relations Specialists|Negotiate collective bargaining agreements. Monitor company or workforce adherence to labor agreements. Present the position of the company or of labor during arbitration or other labor negotiations. Write letters related to labor relations activities, such as letters to amend collective bargaining agreements, letters of dispute or conciliation, or letters to seek clarification of contract terms. Draft contract proposals or counter-proposals for collective bargaining or other labor negotiations. Call or meet with union, company, government, or other interested parties to discuss labor relations matters, such as contract negotiations or grievances. Interpret contractual agreements for employers and employees engaged in collective bargaining or other labor relations processes. Assess the impact of union proposals on company or government operations. Investigate and evaluate union complaints or arguments to determine viability. Recommend collective bargaining strategies, goals, or objectives. Prepare evidence for disciplinary hearings, including preparing witnesses to testify. Propose resolutions for collective bargaining or other labor or contract negotiations. Mediate discussions between employer and employee representatives in attempt to reconcile differences. Review and approve employee disciplinary actions, such as written reprimands, suspensions, or terminations. Assess risk levels associated with collective bargaining strategies. Advise management on matters related to the administration of contracts or employee discipline or grievance procedures. Select mediators or arbitrators for labor disputes or contract negotiations. Review employer practices or employee data to ensure compliance with contracts on matters such as wages, hours, or conditions of employment. Draft rules or regulations to govern collective bargaining activities in collaboration with company, government, or employee representatives. Train managers or supervisors on topics related to labor relations, such as working conditions, safety, or equal opportunity practices. Provide expert testimony in legal proceedings related to labor relations or labor contracts. Identify alternatives to proposals of unions, employees, companies, or government agencies. Develop methods to monitor employee satisfaction with policies or working conditions, including grievance or complaint procedures. Research case law or outcomes of previous case hearings. Schedule or coordinate the details of grievance hearings or other meetings. Prepare and submit required governmental reports or forms related to labor relations matters, such as equal employment opportunity (EEO) forms, new hire forms, or minority compensation reports.
13-1081| Logisticians|Maintain and develop positive business relationships with a customer's key personnel involved in, or directly relevant to, a logistics activity. Develop an understanding of customers' needs and take actions to ensure that such needs are met. Direct availability and allocation of materials, supplies, and finished products. Collaborate with other departments as necessary to meet customer requirements, to take advantage of sales opportunities or, in the case of shortages, to minimize negative impacts on a business. Protect and control proprietary materials. Review logistics performance with customers against targets, benchmarks, and service agreements. Develop and implement technical project management tools, such as plans, schedules, and responsibility and compliance matrices. Direct team activities, establishing task priorities, scheduling and tracking work assignments, providing guidance, and ensuring the availability of resources. Report project plans, progress, and results. Direct and support the compilation and analysis of technical source data necessary for product development. Explain proposed solutions to customers, management, or other interested parties through written proposals and oral presentations. Develop proposals that include documentation for estimates. Plan, organize, and execute logistics support activities such as maintenance planning, repair analysis, and test equipment recommendations. Provide project management services, including the provision and analysis of technical data. Participate in the assessment and review of design alternatives and design change proposal impacts. Support the development of training materials and technical manuals. Stay informed of logistics technology advances and apply appropriate technology to improve logistics processes. Redesign the movement of goods to maximize value and minimize costs. Manage subcontractor activities, reviewing proposals, developing performance specifications, and serving as liaisons between subcontractors and organizations. Manage the logistical aspects of product life cycles, including coordination or provisioning of samples, and the minimization of obsolescence. Perform system lifecycle cost analysis and develop component studies.
13-1111| Management Analysts|Gather and organize information on problems or procedures. Analyze data gathered and develop solutions or alternative methods of proceeding. Confer with personnel concerned to ensure successful functioning of newly implemented systems or procedures. Develop and implement records management program for filing, protection, and retrieval of records, and assure compliance with program. Review forms and reports and confer with management and users about format, distribution, and purpose, and to identify problems and improvements. Interview personnel and conduct on-site observation to ascertain unit functions, work performed, and methods, equipment, and personnel used. Document findings of study and prepare recommendations for implementation of new systems, procedures, or organizational changes. Prepare manuals and train workers in use of new forms, reports, procedures or equipment, according to organizational policy. Design, evaluate, recommend, and approve changes of forms and reports. Plan study of work problems and procedures, such as organizational change, communications, information flow, integrated production methods, inventory control, or cost analysis.
13-1121| Meeting, Convention, and Event Planners|Monitor event activities to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and laws, satisfaction of participants, and resolution of any problems that arise. Confer with staff at a chosen event site to coordinate details. Inspect event facilities to ensure that they conform to customer requirements. Coordinate services for events, such as accommodation and transportation for participants, facilities, catering, signage, displays, special needs requirements, printing and event security. Consult with customers to determine objectives and requirements for events such as meetings, conferences, and conventions. Meet with sponsors and organizing committees to plan scope and format of events, to establish and monitor budgets, or to review administrative procedures and event progress. Review event bills for accuracy, and approve payment. Evaluate and select providers of services according to customer requirements. Arrange the availability of audio-visual equipment, transportation, displays, and other event needs. Plan and develop programs, agendas, budgets, and services according to customer requirements. Negotiate contracts with such service providers and suppliers as hotels, convention centers, and speakers. Maintain records of event aspects, including financial details. Conduct post-event evaluations to determine how future events could be improved. Organize registration of event participants. Hire, train, and supervise volunteers and support staff required for events.
13-1131| Fundraisers|Identify and build relationships with potential donors. Write and send letters of thanks to donors. Secure commitments of participation or donation from individuals or corporate donors. Develop fundraising activity plans that maximize participation or contributions and minimize costs. Develop strategies to encourage new or increased contributions. Create or update donor databases. Direct or supervise fundraising staff, including volunteer staff members. Develop or implement fundraising activities, such as annual giving campaigns or direct mail programs. Solicit cash or in-kind donations or sponsorships from individual, business, or government donors. Monitor progress of fundraising drives. Conduct research to identify the goals, net worth, history of charitable donations, or other data related to potential donors, potential investors, or general donor markets. Compile or develop materials to submit to granting or other funding organizations. Establish fundraising or participation goals for special events or specified time periods. Monitor budgets, expense reports, or other financial data for fundraising organizations. Contact corporate representatives, government officials, or community leaders to increase awareness of organizational causes, activities, or needs. Recruit sponsors, participants, or volunteers for fundraising events. Write reports or prepare presentations to communicate fundraising program data. Design or produce materials such as posters, Web sites, or newsletters to promote, market, or advertise fundraising events. Write speeches, press releases, or other promotional materials to increase awareness of the causes, missions, or goals of organizations seeking funds. Explain the tax advantages of contributions to potential donors. Plan and direct special events for fundraising, such as silent auctions, dances, golf events, or walks. Attend community events, meetings, or conferences to promote organizational goals or solicit donations or sponsorships. Direct or coordinate web-based fundraising activities, such as online auctions or donation Web sites.
13-1141| Compensation, Benefits, and Job Analysis Specialists|Ensure company compliance with federal and state laws, including reporting requirements. Evaluate job positions, determining classification, exempt or non-exempt status, and salary. Plan, develop, evaluate, improve, and communicate methods and techniques for selecting, promoting, compensating, evaluating, and training workers. Prepare occupational classifications, job descriptions and salary scales. Provide advice on the resolution of classification and salary complaints. Advise managers and employees on state and federal employment regulations, collective agreements, benefit and compensation policies, personnel procedures and classification programs. Prepare reports, such as organization and flow charts, and career path reports, to summarize job analysis and evaluation and compensation analysis information. Perform multifactor data and cost analyses that may be used in areas such as support of collective bargaining agreements. Assess need for and develop job analysis instruments and materials. Observe, interview, and survey employees and conduct focus group meetings to collect job, organizational, and occupational information. Assist in preparing and maintaining personnel records and handbooks. Research job and worker requirements, structural and functional relationships among jobs and occupations, and occupational trends. Administer employee insurance, pension and savings plans, working with insurance brokers and plan carriers. Negotiate collective agreements on behalf of employers or workers, and mediate labor disputes and grievances. Research employee benefit and health and safety practices and recommend changes or modifications to existing policies. Analyze organizational, occupational, and industrial data to facilitate organizational functions and provide technical information to business, industry, and government. Advise staff of individuals' qualifications. Develop, implement, administer and evaluate personnel and labor relations programs, including performance appraisal, affirmative action and employment equity programs.
13-1151| Training and Development Specialists|Assess training needs through surveys, interviews with employees, focus groups, or consultation with managers, instructors, or customer representatives. Design, plan, organize, or direct orientation and training programs for employees or customers. Offer specific training programs to help workers maintain or improve job skills. Present information using a variety of instructional techniques or formats, such as role playing, simulations, team exercises, group discussions, videos, or lectures. Obtain, organize, or develop training procedure manuals, guides, or course materials, such as handouts or visual materials. Monitor, evaluate, or record training activities or program effectiveness. Develop alternative training methods if expected improvements are not seen. Evaluate training materials prepared by instructors, such as outlines, text, or handouts. Evaluate modes of training delivery, such as in-person or virtual to optimize training effectiveness, training costs, or environmental impacts. Keep up with developments in area of expertise by reading current journals, books, or magazine articles. Negotiate contracts with clients including desired training outcomes, fees, or expenses. Attend meetings or seminars to obtain information for use in training programs or to inform management of training program status. Monitor training costs and prepare budget reports to justify expenditures. Select and assign instructors to conduct training. Schedule classes based on availability of classrooms, equipment, or instructors. Supervise, evaluate, or refer instructors to skill development classes. Devise programs to develop executive potential among employees in lower-level positions.
13-1161| Market Research Analysts and Marketing Specialists|Prepare reports of findings, illustrating data graphically and translating complex findings into written text. Seek and provide information to help companies determine their position in the marketplace. Gather data on competitors and analyze their prices, sales, and method of marketing and distribution. Collect and analyze data on customer demographics, preferences, needs, and buying habits to identify potential markets and factors affecting product demand. Devise and evaluate methods and procedures for collecting data, such as surveys, opinion polls, or questionnaires, or arrange to obtain existing data. Monitor industry statistics and follow trends in trade literature. Measure and assess customer and employee satisfaction. Measure the effectiveness of marketing, advertising, and communications programs and strategies. Forecast and track marketing and sales trends, analyzing collected data. Attend staff conferences to provide management with information and proposals concerning the promotion, distribution, design, and pricing of company products or services. Conduct research on consumer opinions and marketing strategies, collaborating with marketing professionals, statisticians, pollsters, and other professionals. Develop and implement procedures for identifying advertising needs. Direct trained survey interviewers.
13-2011| Accountants and Auditors|Prepare, examine, or analyze accounting records, financial statements, or other financial reports to assess accuracy, completeness, and conformance to reporting and procedural standards. Report to management regarding the finances of establishment. Establish tables of accounts and assign entries to proper accounts. Develop, implement, modify, and document recordkeeping and accounting systems, making use of current computer technology. Compute taxes owed and prepare tax returns, ensuring compliance with payment, reporting, or other tax requirements. Maintain or examine the records of government agencies. Advise clients in areas such as compensation, employee health care benefits, the design of accounting or data processing systems, or long-range tax or estate plans. Develop, maintain, and analyze budgets, preparing periodic reports that compare budgeted costs to actual costs. Provide internal and external auditing services for businesses or individuals. Analyze business operations, trends, costs, revenues, financial commitments, and obligations to project future revenues and expenses or to provide advice. Advise management about issues such as resource utilization, tax strategies, and the assumptions underlying budget forecasts. Represent clients before taxing authorities and provide support during litigation involving financial issues. Prepare forms and manuals for accounting and bookkeeping personnel and direct their work activities. Appraise, evaluate, and inventory real property and equipment, recording information such as the description, value, and location of property. Survey operations to ascertain accounting needs and to recommend, develop, or maintain solutions to business and financial problems.Collect and analyze data to detect deficient controls, duplicated effort, extravagance, fraud, or non-compliance with laws, regulations, and management policies. Prepare detailed reports on audit findings. Supervise auditing of establishments, and determine scope of investigation required. Report to management about asset utilization and audit results, and recommend changes in operations and financial activities. Inspect account books and accounting systems for efficiency, effectiveness, and use of accepted accounting procedures to record transactions. Examine records and interview workers to ensure recording of transactions and compliance with laws and regulations. Examine and evaluate financial and information systems, recommending controls to ensure system reliability and data integrity. Review data about material assets, net worth, liabilities, capital stock, surplus, income, and expenditures. Confer with company officials about financial and regulatory matters. Examine whether the organization's objectives are reflected in its management activities, and whether employees understand the objectives. Prepare, analyze, and verify annual reports, financial statements, and other records, using accepted accounting and statistical procedures to assess financial condition and facilitate financial planning. Inspect cash on hand, notes receivable and payable, negotiable securities, and canceled checks to confirm records are accurate. Examine inventory to verify journal and ledger entries. Direct activities of personnel engaged in filing, recording, compiling and transmitting financial records. Conduct pre-implementation audits to determine if systems and programs under development will work as planned. Audit payroll and personnel records to determine unemployment insurance premiums, workers' compensation coverage, liabilities, and compliance with tax laws. Evaluate taxpayer finances to determine tax liability, using knowledge of interest and discount rates, annuities, valuation of stocks and bonds, and amortization valuation of depletable assets.
13-2021| Appraisers and Assessors of Real Estate|Determine taxability and value of properties, using methods such as field inspection, structural measurement, calculation, sales analysis, market trend studies, and income and expense analysis. Inspect properties, considering factors such as market value, location, and building or replacement costs to determine appraisal value. Explain assessed values to property owners and defend appealed assessments at public hearings. Prepare and maintain current data on each parcel assessed, including maps of boundaries, inventories of land and structures, property characteristics, and any applicable exemptions. Establish uniform and equitable systems for assessing all classes and kinds of property. Inspect new construction and major improvements to existing structures to determine values. Write and submit appraisal and tax reports for public record. Complete and maintain assessment rolls that show the assessed values and status of all property in a municipality. Analyze trends in sales prices, construction costs, and rents, to assess property values or determine the accuracy of assessments. Review information about transfers of property to ensure its accuracy, checking basic information on buyers, sellers, and sales prices and making corrections as necessary. Conduct regular reviews of property within jurisdictions to determine changes in property due to construction or demolition. Maintain familiarity with aspects of local real estate markets. Identify the ownership of each piece of taxable property. Issue notices of assessments and taxes. Approve applications for property tax exemptions or deductions. Calculate tax bills for properties by multiplying assessed values by jurisdiction tax rates. Provide sales analyses to be used for equalization of school aid. Supervise staff members. Serve on assessment review boards. Hire staff members.Compute final estimation of property values, taking into account such factors as depreciation, replacement costs, value comparisons of similar properties, and income potential. Prepare written reports that estimate property values, outline methods by which the estimations were made, and meet appraisal standards. Collect and analyze relevant data to identify real estate market trends. Inspect properties to evaluate construction, condition, special features, and functional design, and to take property measurements. Examine income records and operating costs of income properties. Evaluate land and neighborhoods where properties are situated, considering locations and trends or impending changes that could influence future values. Search public records for transactions such as sales, leases, and assessments. Check building codes and zoning bylaws to determine any effects on the properties being appraised. Verify legal descriptions of properties by comparing them to county records. Interview persons familiar with properties and immediate surroundings, such as contractors, home owners, and realtors, to obtain pertinent information. Photograph interiors and exteriors of properties to assist in estimating property value, substantiate findings, and complete appraisal reports. Obtain county land values and sales information about nearby properties to aid in establishment of property values. Examine the type and location of nearby services, such as shopping centers, schools, parks, and other neighborhood features, to evaluate their impact on property values. Estimate building replacement costs using building valuation manuals and professional cost estimators. Draw land diagrams that will be used in appraisal reports to support findings. Testify in court as to the value of a piece of real estate property.
13-2031| Budget Analysts|Direct the preparation of regular and special budget reports. Analyze monthly department budgeting and accounting reports to maintain expenditure controls. Provide advice and technical assistance with cost analysis, fiscal allocation, and budget preparation. Examine budget estimates for completeness, accuracy, and conformance with procedures and regulations. Summarize budgets and submit recommendations for the approval or disapproval of funds requests. Review operating budgets to analyze trends affecting budget needs. Consult with managers to ensure that budget adjustments are made in accordance with program changes. Compile and analyze accounting records and other data to determine the financial resources required to implement a program. Perform cost-benefit analyses to compare operating programs, review financial requests, or explore alternative financing methods. Interpret budget directives and establish policies for carrying out directives. Seek new ways to improve efficiency and increase profits. Testify before examining and fund-granting authorities, clarifying and promoting the proposed budgets. Match appropriations for specific programs with appropriations for broader programs, including items for emergency funds.
13-2041| Credit Analysts|Analyze credit data and financial statements to determine the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money. Generate financial ratios, using computer programs, to evaluate customers' financial status. Consult with customers to resolve complaints and verify financial and credit transactions. Prepare reports that include the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money. Compare liquidity, profitability, and credit histories of establishments being evaluated with those of similar establishments in the same industries and geographic locations. Review individual or commercial customer files to identify and select delinquent accounts for collection. Confer with credit association and other business representatives to exchange credit information. Complete loan applications, including credit analyses and summaries of loan requests, and submit to loan committees for approval. Analyze financial data such as income growth, quality of management, and market share to determine expected profitability of loans. Evaluate customer records and recommend payment plans based on earnings, savings data, payment history, and purchase activity.
13-2051| Financial Analysts|Draw charts and graphs, using computer spreadsheets, to illustrate technical reports. Inform investment decisions by analyzing financial information to forecast business, industry, or economic conditions. Monitor developments in the fields of industrial technology, business, finance, and economic theory. Interpret data on price, yield, stability, future investment-risk trends, economic influences, and other factors affecting investment programs. Monitor fundamental economic, industrial, and corporate developments by analyzing information from financial publications and services, investment banking firms, government agencies, trade publications, company sources, or personal interviews. Recommend investments and investment timing to companies, investment firm staff, or the public. Determine the prices at which securities should be syndicated and offered to the public. Prepare plans of action for investment, using financial analyses. Evaluate and compare the relative quality of various securities in a given industry. Present oral or written reports on general economic trends, individual corporations, and entire industries. Contact brokers and purchase investments for companies, according to company policy. Collaborate with investment bankers to attract new corporate clients to securities firms.
13-2052| Personal Financial Advisors|Interview clients to determine their current income, expenses, insurance coverage, tax status, financial objectives, risk tolerance, or other information needed to develop a financial plan. Answer clients' questions about the purposes and details of financial plans and strategies. Recommend to clients strategies in cash management, insurance coverage, investment planning, or other areas to help them achieve their financial goals. Analyze financial information obtained from clients to determine strategies for meeting clients' financial objectives. Implement financial planning recommendations or refer clients to someone who can assist them with plan implementation. Review clients' accounts and plans regularly to determine whether life changes, economic changes, environmental concerns, or financial performance indicate a need for plan reassessment. Manage client portfolios, keeping client plans up-to-date. Contact clients periodically to determine any changes in their financial status. Prepare or interpret for clients information such as investment performance reports, financial document summaries, or income projections. Recruit and maintain client bases. Explain to clients the personal financial advisor's responsibilities and the types of services to be provided. Investigate available investment opportunities to determine compatibility with client financial plans. Guide clients in the gathering of information, such as bank account records, income tax returns, life and disability insurance records, pension plans, or wills. Monitor financial market trends to ensure that client plans are responsive. Recommend financial products, such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, or insurance. Meet with clients' other advisors, such as attorneys, accountants, trust officers, or investment bankers, to fully understand clients' financial goals and circumstances. Devise debt liquidation plans that include payoff priorities and timelines. Open accounts for clients and disburse funds from accounts to creditors as agent for clients.
13-2053| Insurance Underwriters|Decrease value of policy when risk is substandard and specify applicable endorsements or apply rating to ensure safe profitable distribution of risks, using reference materials. Decline excessive risks. Write to field representatives, medical personnel, and others to obtain further information, quote rates, or explain company underwriting policies. Review company records to determine amount of insurance in force on single risk or group of closely related risks. Examine documents to determine degree of risk from such factors as applicant financial standing and value and condition of property. Authorize reinsurance of policy when risk is high. Evaluate possibility of losses due to catastrophe or excessive insurance.
13-2061| Financial Examiners|Investigate activities of institutions to enforce laws and regulations and to ensure legality of transactions and operations or financial solvency. Prepare reports, exhibits and other supporting schedules that detail an institution's safety and soundness, compliance with laws and regulations, and recommended solutions to questionable financial conditions. Recommend actions to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, or to protect solvency of institutions. Resolve problems concerning the overall financial integrity of banking institutions including loan investment portfolios, capital, earnings, and specific or large troubled accounts. Direct and participate in formal and informal meetings with bank directors, trustees, senior management, counsels, outside accountants and consultants to gather information and discuss findings. Review balance sheets, operating income and expense accounts, and loan documentation to confirm institution assets and liabilities. Plan, supervise, and review work of assigned subordinates. Review audit reports of internal and external auditors to monitor adequacy of scope of reports or to discover specific weaknesses in internal routines. Train other examiners in the financial examination process. Review and analyze new, proposed, or revised laws, regulations, policies, and procedures to interpret their meaning and determine their impact. Examine the minutes of meetings of directors, stockholders and committees to investigate the specific authority extended at various levels of management. Confer with officials of real estate, securities, or financial institution industries to exchange views and discuss issues or pending cases. Establish guidelines for procedures and policies that comply with new and revised regulations and direct their implementation. Evaluate data processing applications for institutions under examination to develop recommendations for coordinating existing systems with examination procedures. Verify and inspect cash reserves, assigned collateral, and bank-owned securities to check internal control procedures. Provide regulatory compliance training to employees. Review applications for mergers, acquisitions, establishment of new institutions, acceptance in Federal Reserve System, or registration of securities sales to determine their public interest value and conformance to regulations, and recommend acceptance or rejection.
13-2071| Credit Counselors|Assess clients' overall financial situation by reviewing income, assets, debts, expenses, credit reports, or other financial information. Create debt management plans, spending plans, or budgets to assist clients to meet financial goals. Calculate clients' available monthly income to meet debt obligations. Prioritize client debt repayment to avoid dire consequences, such as bankruptcy or foreclosure or to reduce overall costs, such as by paying high-interest or short-term loans first. Recommend strategies for clients to meet their financial goals, such as borrowing money through loans or loan programs, declaring bankruptcy, making budget adjustments, or enrolling in debt management plans. Interview clients by telephone or in person to gather financial information. Explain general financial topics to clients, such as credit report ratings, bankruptcy laws, consumer protection laws, wage attachments, or collection actions. Advise clients on housing matters, such as housing rental, homeownership, mortgage delinquency, or foreclosure prevention. Prepare written documents to establish contracts with or communicate financial recommendations to clients. Explain services or policies to clients, such as debt management program rules, the advantages and disadvantages of using services, or creditor concession policies. Maintain or update records of client account activity, including financial transactions, counseling session notes, correspondence, document images, or client inquiries. Advise clients or respond to inquiries about financial matters in person or via phone, email, Web site, or Internet chat. Refer clients to social service or community resources for needs beyond those of credit or debt counseling. Estimate time for debt repayment given amount of debt, interest rates, and available funds. Negotiate with creditors on behalf of clients to arrange for payment adjustments, interest rate reductions, time extensions, or to set up payment plans. Recommend educational materials or resources to clients on matters such as financial planning, budgeting, or credit. Review changes to financial, family, or employment situations to determine whether changes to existing debt management plans, spending plans, or budgets are needed. Create action plans to assist clients in obtaining permanent housing via rent or mortgage programs. Teach courses or seminars on topics such as budgeting, managing personal finances, or financial literacy. Explain loan information to clients, such as available loan types, eligibility requirements, or loan restrictions. Conduct research to help clients avoid repossessions or foreclosures or remove levies or wage garnishments. Investigate missing checks, payment histories, held funds, returned checks, or other related issues to resolve client or creditor problems. Disburse funds from client accounts to creditors.
13-2072| Loan Officers|Analyze applicants' financial status, credit, and property evaluations to determine feasibility of granting loans. Obtain and compile copies of loan applicants' credit histories, corporate financial statements, and other financial information. Meet with applicants to obtain information for loan applications and to answer questions about the process. Explain to customers the different types of loans and credit options that are available, as well as the terms of those services. Review loan agreements to ensure that they are complete and accurate according to policy. Approve loans within specified limits, and refer loan applications outside those limits to management for approval. Handle customer complaints and take appropriate action to resolve them. Stay abreast of new types of loans and other financial services and products to better meet customers' needs. Review and update credit and loan files. Submit applications to credit analysts for verification and recommendation. Compute payment schedules. Analyze potential loan markets and develop referral networks to locate prospects for loans. Set credit policies, credit lines, procedures and standards in conjunction with senior managers. Confer with underwriters to aid in resolving mortgage application problems. Market bank products to individuals and firms, promoting bank services that may meet customers' needs. Work with clients to identify their financial goals and to find ways of reaching those goals. Negotiate payment arrangements with customers who have delinquent loans. Prepare reports to send to customers whose accounts are delinquent, and forward irreconcilable accounts for collector action. Supervise loan personnel. Interview, hire, and train new employees. Provide special services such as investment banking for clients with more specialized needs.
13-2081| Tax Examiners and Collectors, and Revenue Agents|Collect taxes from individuals or businesses according to prescribed laws and regulations. Maintain knowledge of tax code changes, and of accounting procedures and theory to properly evaluate financial information. Maintain records for each case, including contacts, telephone numbers, and actions taken. Contact taxpayers by mail or telephone to address discrepancies and to request supporting documentation. Send notices to taxpayers when accounts are delinquent. Check tax forms to verify that names and taxpayer identification numbers are correct, that computations have been performed correctly, or that amounts match those on supporting documentation. Answer questions from taxpayers and assist them in completing tax forms. Impose payment deadlines on delinquent taxpayers and monitor payments to ensure that deadlines are met. Notify taxpayers of any overpayment or underpayment, and either issue a refund or request further payment. Confer with taxpayers or their representatives to discuss the issues, laws, and regulations involved in returns, and to resolve problems with returns. Enter tax return information into computers for processing. Conduct independent field audits and investigations of income tax returns to verify information or to amend tax liabilities. Review selected tax returns to determine the nature and extent of audits to be performed on them. Investigate claims of inability to pay taxes by researching court information for the status of liens, mortgages, or financial statements, or by locating assets through third parties. Process individual and corporate income tax returns, and sales and excise tax returns. Recommend criminal prosecutions or civil penalties. Examine accounting systems and records to determine whether accounting methods used were appropriate and in compliance with statutory provisions. Review filed tax returns to determine whether claimed tax credits and deductions are allowed by law. Participate in informal appeals hearings on contested cases from other agents. Examine and analyze tax assets and liabilities to determine resolution of delinquent tax problems. Direct service of legal documents, such as subpoenas, warrants, notices of assessment and garnishments. Secure a taxpayer's agreement to discharge a tax assessment, or submit contested determinations to other administrative or judicial conferees for appeals hearings. Determine appropriate methods of debt settlement, such as offers of compromise, wage garnishment, or seizure and sale of property. Request that the state or federal revenue service prepare a return on a taxpayer's behalf in cases where taxes have not been filed. Prepare briefs, and assist in searching and seizing records to prepare charges and documentation for court cases.
13-2082| Tax Preparers|Interview clients to obtain additional information on taxable income and deductible expenses and allowances. Use all appropriate adjustments, deductions, and credits to keep clients' taxes to a minimum. Prepare or assist in preparing simple to complex tax returns for individuals or small businesses. Compute taxes owed or overpaid, using adding machines or personal computers, and complete entries on forms, following tax form instructions and tax tables. Furnish taxpayers with sufficient information and advice to ensure correct tax form completion. Check data input or verify totals on forms prepared by others to detect errors in arithmetic, data entry, or procedures. Consult tax law handbooks or bulletins to determine procedures for preparation of atypical returns. Calculate form preparation fees according to return complexity and processing time required. Answer questions and provide future tax planning to clients. Review financial records such as income statements and documentation of expenditures to determine forms needed to prepare tax returns. Explain federal and state tax laws to individuals and companies.
15-1111| Computer and Information Research Scientists|Analyze problems to develop solutions involving computer hardware and software. Assign or schedule tasks to meet work priorities and goals. Evaluate project plans and proposals to assess feasibility issues. Apply theoretical expertise and innovation to create or apply new technology, such as adapting principles for applying computers to new uses. Consult with users, management, vendors, and technicians to determine computing needs and system requirements. Meet with managers, vendors, and others to solicit cooperation and resolve problems. Conduct logical analyses of business, scientific, engineering, and other technical problems, formulating mathematical models of problems for solution by computers. Develop and interpret organizational goals, policies, and procedures. Participate in staffing decisions and direct training of subordinates. Develop performance standards, and evaluate work in light of established standards. Design computers and the software that runs them. Maintain network hardware and software, direct network security measures, and monitor networks to ensure availability to system users. Participate in multidisciplinary projects in areas such as virtual reality, human-computer interaction, or robotics. Approve, prepare, monitor, and adjust operational budgets. Direct daily operations of departments, coordinating project activities with other departments.
15-1121| Computer Systems Analysts|Expand or modify system to serve new purposes or improve work flow. Test, maintain, and monitor computer programs and systems, including coordinating the installation of computer programs and systems. Develop, document and revise system design procedures, test procedures, and quality standards. Provide staff and users with assistance solving computer related problems, such as malfunctions and program problems. Review and analyze computer printouts and performance indicators to locate code problems, and correct errors by correcting codes. Consult with management to ensure agreement on system principles. Confer with clients regarding the nature of the information processing or computation needs a computer program is to address. Read manuals, periodicals, and technical reports to learn how to develop programs that meet staff and user requirements. Coordinate and link the computer systems within an organization to increase compatibility and so information can be shared. Determine computer software or hardware needed to set up or alter system. Supervise computer programmers or other systems analysts or serve as project leaders for particular systems projects. Assess the usefulness of pre-developed application packages and adapt them to a user environment. Analyze information processing or computation needs and plan and design computer systems, using techniques such as structured analysis, data modeling and information engineering. Define the goals of the system and devise flow charts and diagrams describing logical operational steps of programs. Train staff and users to work with computer systems and programs. Recommend new equipment or software packages. Use object-oriented programming languages, as well as client and server applications development processes and multimedia and Internet technology. Prepare cost-benefit and return-on-investment analyses to aid in decisions on system implementation. Use the computer in the analysis and solution of business problems, such as development of integrated production and inventory control and cost analysis systems. Specify inputs accessed by the system and plan the distribution and use of the results. Interview or survey workers, observe job performance or perform the job to determine what information is processed and how it is processed.
15-1122| Information Security Analysts|Encrypt data transmissions and erect firewalls to conceal confidential information as it is being transmitted and to keep out tainted digital transfers. Develop plans to safeguard computer files against accidental or unauthorized modification, destruction, or disclosure and to meet emergency data processing needs. Review violations of computer security procedures and discuss procedures with violators to ensure violations are not repeated. Monitor use of data files and regulate access to safeguard information in computer files. Monitor current reports of computer viruses to determine when to update virus protection systems. Modify computer security files to incorporate new software, correct errors, or change individual access status. Perform risk assessments and execute tests of data processing system to ensure functioning of data processing activities and security measures. Confer with users to discuss issues such as computer data access needs, security violations, and programming changes. Train users and promote security awareness to ensure system security and to improve server and network efficiency. Coordinate implementation of computer system plan with establishment personnel and outside vendors. Document computer security and emergency measures policies, procedures, and tests. Maintain permanent fleet cryptologic and carry-on direct support systems required in special land, sea surface and subsurface operations.
15-1131| Computer Programmers|Correct errors by making appropriate changes and rechecking the program to ensure that the desired results are produced. Conduct trial runs of programs and software applications to be sure they will produce the desired information and that the instructions are correct. Write, update, and maintain computer programs or software packages to handle specific jobs such as tracking inventory, storing or retrieving data, or controlling other equipment. Write, analyze, review, and rewrite programs, using workflow chart and diagram, and applying knowledge of computer capabilities, subject matter, and symbolic logic. Perform or direct revision, repair, or expansion of existing programs to increase operating efficiency or adapt to new requirements. Consult with managerial, engineering, and technical personnel to clarify program intent, identify problems, and suggest changes. Perform systems analysis and programming tasks to maintain and control the use of computer systems software as a systems programmer. Compile and write documentation of program development and subsequent revisions, inserting comments in the coded instructions so others can understand the program. Prepare detailed workflow charts and diagrams that describe input, output, and logical operation, and convert them into a series of instructions coded in a computer language. Consult with and assist computer operators or system analysts to define and resolve problems in running computer programs. Investigate whether networks, workstations, the central processing unit of the system, or peripheral equipment are responding to a program's instructions. Assign, coordinate, and review work and activities of programming personnel. Write or contribute to instructions or manuals to guide end users.
15-1132| Software Developers, Applications|Modify existing software to correct errors, allow it to adapt to new hardware, or to improve its performance. Develop and direct software system testing and validation procedures, programming, and documentation. Confer with systems analysts, engineers, programmers and others to design system and to obtain information on project limitations and capabilities, performance requirements and interfaces. Analyze user needs and software requirements to determine feasibility of design within time and cost constraints. Design, develop and modify software systems, using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of design. Store, retrieve, and manipulate data for analysis of system capabilities and requirements. Consult with customers about software system design and maintenance. Supervise the work of programmers, technologists and technicians and other engineering and scientific personnel. Coordinate software system installation and monitor equipment functioning to ensure specifications are met. Obtain and evaluate information on factors such as reporting formats required, costs, and security needs to determine hardware configuration. Determine system performance standards.
15-1133| Software Developers, Systems Software|Modify existing software to correct errors, to adapt it to new hardware, or to upgrade interfaces and improve performance. Develop or direct software system testing or validation procedures. Direct software programming and development of documentation. Consult with customers or other departments on project status, proposals, or technical issues, such as software system design or maintenance. Analyze information to determine, recommend, and plan installation of a new system or modification of an existing system. Consult with engineering staff to evaluate interface between hardware and software, develop specifications and performance requirements, or resolve customer problems. Design or develop software systems, using scientific analysis and mathematical models to predict and measure outcome and consequences of design. Prepare reports or correspondence concerning project specifications, activities, or status. Confer with data processing or project managers to obtain information on limitations or capabilities for data processing projects. Store, retrieve, and manipulate data for analysis of system capabilities and requirements. Coordinate installation of software system. Monitor functioning of equipment to ensure system operates in conformance with specifications. Supervise and assign work to programmers, designers, technologists, technicians, or other engineering or scientific personnel. Advise customer about or perform maintenance of software system. Train users to use new or modified equipment. Specify power supply requirements and configuration.
15-1134| Web Developers|Design, build, or maintain Web sites, using authoring or scripting languages, content creation tools, management tools, and digital media. Perform or direct Web site updates. Write, design, or edit Web page content, or direct others producing content. Confer with management or development teams to prioritize needs, resolve conflicts, develop content criteria, or choose solutions. Back up files from Web sites to local directories for instant recovery in case of problems. Identify problems uncovered by testing or customer feedback, and correct problems or refer problems to appropriate personnel for correction. Evaluate code to ensure that it is valid, is properly structured, meets industry standards, and is compatible with browsers, devices, or operating systems. Maintain understanding of current Web technologies or programming practices through continuing education, reading, or participation in professional conferences, workshops, or groups. Analyze user needs to determine technical requirements. Develop or validate test routines and schedules to ensure that test cases mimic external interfaces and address all browser and device types. Develop databases that support Web applications and Web sites. Renew domain name registrations. Collaborate with management or users to develop e-commerce strategies and to integrate these strategies with Web sites. Write supporting code for Web applications or Web sites. Communicate with network personnel or Web site hosting agencies to address hardware or software issues affecting Web sites. Design and implement Web site security measures, such as firewalls or message encryption. Perform Web site tests according to planned schedules, or after any Web site or product revision. Select programming languages, design tools, or applications. Incorporate technical considerations into Web site design plans, such as budgets, equipment, performance requirements, or legal issues including accessibility and privacy. Respond to user email inquiries, or set up automated systems to send responses. Develop or implement procedures for ongoing Web site revision. Develop and document style guidelines for Web site content. Develop Web site maps, application models, image templates, or page templates that meet project goals, user needs, or industry standards. Establish appropriate server directory trees. Identify or maintain links to and from other Web sites and check links to ensure proper functioning. Recommend and implement performance improvements. Create searchable indices for Web page content. Register Web sites with search engines to increase Web site traffic. Provide clear, detailed descriptions of Web site specifications, such as product features, activities, software, communication protocols, programming languages, and operating systems software and hardware. Monitor security system performance logs to identify problems and notify security specialists when problems occur. Create web models or prototypes that include physical, interface, logical, or data models.
15-1141| Database Administrators|Test programs or databases, correct errors, and make necessary modifications. Modify existing databases and database management systems or direct programmers and analysts to make changes. Plan, coordinate and implement security measures to safeguard information in computer files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure. Work as part of a project team to coordinate database development and determine project scope and limitations. Write and code logical and physical database descriptions and specify identifiers of database to management system or direct others in coding descriptions. Train users and answer questions. Specify users and user access levels for each segment of database. Approve, schedule, plan, and supervise the installation and testing of new products and improvements to computer systems such as the installation of new databases. Review project requests describing database user needs to estimate time and cost required to accomplish project. Develop standards and guidelines to guide the use and acquisition of software and to protect vulnerable information. Review procedures in database management system manuals for making changes to database. Develop methods for integrating different products so they work properly together such as customizing commercial databases to fit specific needs. Develop data model describing data elements and how they are used, following procedures and using pen, template or computer software. Select and enter codes to monitor database performance and to create production database. Establish and calculate optimum values for database parameters, using manuals and calculator.
15-1142| Network and Computer Systems Administrators|Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations. Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations. Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary. Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware. Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software. Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use. Load computer tapes and disks, and install software and printer paper or forms. Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software. Monitor network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future. Confer with network users about how to solve existing system problems. Research new technologies by attending seminars, reading trade articles, or taking classes, and implement or recommend the implementation of new technologies. Analyze equipment performance records to determine the need for repair or replacement. Implement and provide technical support for voice services and equipment, such as private branch exchange, voice mail system, and telecom system. Maintain an inventory of parts for emergency repairs. Recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations, and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes. Gather data pertaining to customer needs, and use the information to identify, predict, interpret, and evaluate system and network requirements. Train people in computer system use. Coordinate with vendors and with company personnel to facilitate purchases. Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintain control records. Maintain logs related to network functions, as well as maintenance and repair records.
15-1143| Computer Network Architects|Adjust network sizes to meet volume or capacity demands. Communicate with customers, sales staff, or marketing staff to determine customer needs. Communicate with system users to ensure accounts are set up properly or to diagnose and solve operational problems. Coordinate installation of new equipment. Coordinate network operations, maintenance, repairs, or upgrades. Coordinate network or design activities with designers of associated networks. Design, build, or operate equipment configuration prototypes, including network hardware, software, servers, or server operation systems. Design, organize, and deliver product awareness, skills transfer, or product education sessions for staff or suppliers. Determine specific network hardware or software requirements, such as platforms, interfaces, bandwidths, or routine schemas. Develop and implement solutions for network problems. Develop and write procedures for installation, use, or troubleshooting of communications hardware or software. Develop conceptual, logical, or physical network designs. Develop disaster recovery plans. Develop network-related documentation. Develop or maintain project reporting systems. Develop or recommend network security measures, such as firewalls, network security audits, or automated security probes. Develop plans or budgets for network equipment replacement. Develop procedures to track, project, or report network availability, reliability, capacity, or utilization. Estimate time and materials needed to complete projects. Evaluate network designs to determine whether customer requirements are met efficiently and effectively. Explain design specifications to integration or test engineers. Maintain networks by performing activities such as file addition, deletion, or backup. Maintain or coordinate the maintenance of network peripherals, such as printers. Monitor and analyze network performance and data input/output reports to detect problems, identify inefficient use of computer resources, or perform capacity planning. Participate in network technology upgrade or expansion projects, including installation of hardware and software and integration testing. Prepare design presentations and proposals for staff or customers. Prepare detailed network specifications, including diagrams, charts, equipment configurations, or recommended technologies. Prepare or monitor project schedules, budgets, or cost control systems. Research and test new or modified hardware or software products to determine performance and interoperability. Supervise engineers or other staff in the design or implementation of network solutions. Use network computer-aided design (CAD) software packages to optimize network designs. Visit vendors, attend conferences or training sessions, or study technical journals to keep up with changes in technology. Communicate with vendors to gather information about products, alert them to future needs, resolve problems, or address system maintenance issues.
15-1151| Computer User Support Specialists|Oversee the daily performance of computer systems. Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems. Enter commands and observe system functioning to verify correct operations and detect errors. Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software. Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications. Maintain records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken, or installation activities. Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support. Refer major hardware or software problems or defective products to vendors or technicians for service. Develop training materials and procedures, or train users in the proper use of hardware or software. Confer with staff, users, and management to establish requirements for new systems or modifications. Prepare evaluations of software or hardware, and recommend improvements or upgrades. Read trade magazines and technical manuals, or attend conferences and seminars to maintain knowledge of hardware and software. Hire, supervise, and direct workers engaged in special project work, problem solving, monitoring, and installing data communication equipment and software. Inspect equipment and read order sheets to prepare for delivery to users. Modify and customize commercial programs for internal needs. Conduct office automation feasibility studies, including workflow analysis, space design, or cost comparison analysis.
15-1152| Computer Network Support Specialists|Back up network data. Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals. Analyze and report computer network security breaches or attempted breaches. Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment. Document network support activities. Configure wide area network (WAN) or local area network (LAN) routers or related equipment. Install network software, including security or firewall software. Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups. Provide telephone support related to networking or connectivity issues. Evaluate local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN) performance data to ensure sufficient availability or speed, to identify network problems, or for disaster recovery purposes. Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function. Perform routine maintenance or standard repairs to networking components or equipment. Configure and define parameters for installation or testing of local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), hubs, routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, or related networking equipment. Install new hardware or software systems or components, ensuring integration with existing network systems. Test computer software or hardware, using standard diagnostic testing equipment and procedures. Install or repair network cables, including fiber optic cables. Monitor industry websites or publications for information about patches, releases, viruses, or potential problem identification. Create or update technical documentation for network installations or changes to existing installations. Train users in procedures related to network applications software or related systems. Test repaired items to ensure proper operation. Install and configure wireless networking equipment. Maintain logs of network activity. Document help desk requests and resolutions. Research hardware or software products to meet technical networking or security needs. Create or revise user instructions, procedures, or manuals. Run monthly network reports.
15-2011| Actuaries|Ascertain premium rates required and cash reserves and liabilities necessary to ensure payment of future benefits. Determine or help determine company policy, and explain complex technical matters to company executives, government officials, shareholders, policyholders, or the public. Design, review and help administer insurance, annuity and pension plans, determining financial soundness and calculating premiums. Analyze statistical information to estimate mortality, accident, sickness, disability, and retirement rates. Provide advice to clients on a contract basis, working as a consultant. Collaborate with programmers, underwriters, accounts, claims experts, and senior management to help companies develop plans for new lines of business or improvements to existing business. Provide expertise to help financial institutions manage risks and maximize returns associated with investment products or credit offerings. Construct probability tables for events such as fires, natural disasters, and unemployment, based on analysis of statistical data and other pertinent information. Determine equitable basis for distributing surplus earnings under participating insurance and annuity contracts in mutual companies. Testify before public agencies on proposed legislation affecting businesses. Determine policy contract provisions for each type of insurance. Testify in court as expert witness or to provide legal evidence on matters such as the value of potential lifetime earnings of a person who is disabled or killed in an accident.
15-2021| Mathematicians|Develop computational methods for solving problems that occur in areas of science and engineering or that come from applications in business or industry. Apply mathematical theories and techniques to the solution of practical problems in business, engineering, the sciences, or other fields. Develop mathematical or statistical models of phenomena to be used for analysis or for computational simulation. Assemble sets of assumptions and explore the consequences of each set. Maintain knowledge in the field by reading professional journals, talking with other mathematicians, and attending professional conferences. Address the relationships of quantities, magnitudes, and forms through the use of numbers and symbols. Disseminate research by writing reports, publishing papers, or presenting at professional conferences. Perform computations and apply methods of numerical analysis to data. Develop new principles and new relationships between existing mathematical principles to advance mathematical science. Design, analyze, and decipher encryption systems designed to transmit military, political, financial, or law-enforcement-related information in code.
15-2031| Operations Research Analysts|Formulate mathematical or simulation models of problems, relating constants and variables, restrictions, alternatives, conflicting objectives, and their numerical parameters. Collaborate with senior managers and decision makers to identify and solve a variety of problems and to clarify management objectives. Collaborate with others in the organization to ensure successful implementation of chosen problem solutions. Prepare management reports defining and evaluating problems and recommending solutions. Study and analyze information about alternative courses of action to determine which plan will offer the best outcomes. Specify manipulative or computational methods to be applied to models. Perform validation and testing of models to ensure adequacy and reformulate models as necessary. Define data requirements and gather and validate information, applying judgment and statistical tests. Analyze information obtained from management to conceptualize and define operational problems. Observe the current system in operation and gather and analyze information about each of the parts of component problems, using a variety of sources. Design, conduct, and evaluate experimental operational models in cases where models cannot be developed from existing data. Break systems into their component parts, assign numerical values to each component, and examine the mathematical relationships between them.
15-2041| Statisticians|Identify relationships and trends in data, as well as any factors that could affect the results of research. Report results of statistical analyses, including information in the form of graphs, charts, and tables. Analyze and interpret statistical data to identify significant differences in relationships among sources of information. Adapt statistical methods to solve specific problems in many fields, such as economics, biology, and engineering. Develop software applications or programming to use for statistical modeling and graphic analysis. Develop and test experimental designs, sampling techniques, and analytical methods. Prepare data for processing by organizing information, checking for any inaccuracies, and adjusting and weighting the raw data. Plan data collection methods for specific projects and determine the types and sizes of sample groups to be used. Process large amounts of data for statistical modeling and graphic analysis, using computers. Evaluate the statistical methods and procedures used to obtain data to ensure validity, applicability, efficiency, and accuracy. Design research projects that apply valid scientific techniques and use information obtained from baselines or historical data to structure uncompromised and efficient analyses. Present statistical and nonstatistical results using charts, bullets, and graphs in meetings or conferences to audiences such as clients, peers, and students. Develop an understanding of fields to which statistical methods are to be applied to determine whether methods and results are appropriate. Supervise and provide instructions for workers collecting and tabulating data. Evaluate sources of information to determine any limitations in terms of reliability or usability. Apply sampling techniques or use complete enumeration bases to determine and define groups to be surveyed. Examine theories, such as those of probability and inference, to discover mathematical bases for new or improved methods of obtaining and evaluating numerical data. Report results of statistical analyses in peer-reviewed papers and technical manuals.
15-2091| Mathematical Technicians|Apply standardized mathematical formulas, principles, and methodology to the solution of technological problems involving engineering or physical science. Process data for analysis, using computers. Reduce raw data to meaningful terms, using the most practical and accurate combination and sequence of computational methods. Translate data into numbers, equations, flow charts, graphs, or other forms. Confer with scientific or engineering personnel to plan projects. Modify standard formulas so that they conform to project needs and data processing methods.
17-1011| Architects, Except Landscape and Naval|Prepare scale drawings or architectural designs, using computer-aided design or other tools. Plan or design structures such as residences, office buildings, theatres, factories, or other structural properties in accordance with environmental, safety, or other regulations. Direct activities of technicians engaged in preparing drawings or specification documents. Prepare contract documents for building contractors. Prepare information regarding design, structure specifications, materials, color, equipment, estimated costs, or construction time. Meet with clients to review or discuss architectural drawings. Integrate engineering elements into unified architectural designs. Administer construction contracts. Consult with clients to determine functional or spatial requirements of structures. Develop marketing materials, proposals, or presentation to generate new work opportunities. Develop final construction plans that include aesthetic representations of the structure or details for its construction. Conduct periodic on-site observations of construction work to monitor compliance with plans. Monitor the work of specialists, such as electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, interior designers, or sound specialists to ensure optimal form or function of designs or final structures. Plan layouts of structural architectural projects. Design or plan construction of green building projects to minimize adverse environmental impact or conserve energy. Represent clients in obtaining bids or awarding construction contracts. Design structures that incorporate environmentally friendly building practices or concepts, such as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards. Perform predesign services, such as feasibility or environmental impact studies. Inspect proposed building sites to determine suitability for construction. Create three-dimensional or interactive representations of designs, using computer assisted design software. Design environmentally sound structural upgrades to existing buildings, such as natural lighting systems, green roofs, or rainwater collection systems. Gather information related to projects' environmental sustainability or operational efficiency. Prepare operating and maintenance manuals, studies, or reports. Calculate potential energy savings by comparing estimated energy consumption of proposed design to baseline standards.
17-1012| Landscape Architects|Confer with clients, engineering personnel, or architects on landscape projects. Prepare site plans, specifications, or cost estimates for land development. Analyze data on conditions such as site location, drainage, or structure location for environmental reports or landscaping plans. Develop marketing materials, proposals, or presentation to generate new work opportunities. Inspect landscape work to ensure compliance with specifications, evaluate quality of materials or work, or advise clients or construction personnel. Prepare graphic representations or drawings of proposed plans or designs. Present project plans or designs to public stakeholders, such as government agencies or community groups. Integrate existing land features or landscaping into designs. Manage the work completed by subcontractors to ensure quality control. Create landscapes that minimize water consumption such as by incorporating drought-resistant grasses or indigenous plants. Collaborate with architects or related professionals on whole building design to maximize the aesthetic features of structures or surrounding land and to improve energy efficiency. Research latest products, technology, or design trends to stay current in the field. Inspect proposed sites to identify structural elements of land areas or other important site information, such as soil condition, existing landscaping, or the proximity of water management facilities. Develop planting plans for clients to assist them to garden productively or achieve particular aesthetic effects. Identify and select appropriate sustainable materials for use in landscape designs, such as using recycled wood or recycled concrete boards for structural elements or recycled tires for playground bedding. Design and integrate rainwater harvesting or gray and reclaimed water systems to conserve water into building or land designs. Collaborate with estimators to cost projects, create project plans, or coordinate bids from landscaping contractors. Prepare conceptual drawings, graphics, or other visual representations of land areas to show predicted growth or development of land areas over time. Provide follow-up consultations for clients to ensure landscape designs are maturing or developing as planned.
17-1021| Cartographers and Photogrammetrists|Determine map content and layout, as well as production specifications such as scale, size, projection, and colors, and direct production to ensure that specifications are followed. Inspect final compositions to ensure completeness and accuracy. Revise existing maps and charts, making all necessary corrections and adjustments. Compile data required for map preparation, including aerial photographs, survey notes, records, reports, and original maps. Prepare and alter trace maps, charts, tables, detailed drawings, and three-dimensional optical models of terrain using stereoscopic plotting and computer graphics equipment. Delineate aerial photographic detail, such as control points, hydrography, topography, and cultural features, using precision stereoplotting apparatus or drafting instruments. Build and update digital databases. Examine and analyze data from ground surveys, reports, aerial photographs, and satellite images to prepare topographic maps, aerial-photograph mosaics, and related charts. Identify, scale, and orient geodetic points, elevations, and other planimetric or topographic features, applying standard mathematical formulas. Determine guidelines that specify which source material is acceptable for use. Collect information about specific features of the Earth, using aerial photography and other digital remote sensing techniques. Study legal records to establish boundaries of local, national, and international properties. Select aerial photographic and remote sensing techniques and plotting equipment needed to meet required standards of accuracy. Travel over photographed areas to observe, identify, record, and verify all relevant features.
17-1022| Surveyors|Verify the accuracy of survey data including measurements and calculations conducted at survey sites. Search legal records, survey records, and land titles to obtain information about property boundaries in areas to be surveyed. Calculate heights, depths, relative positions, property lines, and other characteristics of terrain. Prepare and maintain sketches, maps, reports, and legal descriptions of surveys to describe, certify, and assume liability for work performed. Direct or conduct surveys to establish legal boundaries for properties, based on legal deeds and titles. Prepare or supervise preparation of all data, charts, plots, maps, records, and documents related to surveys. Write descriptions of property boundary surveys for use in deeds, leases, or other legal documents. Compute geodetic measurements and interpret survey data to determine positions, shapes, and elevations of geomorphic and topographic features. Determine longitudes and latitudes of important features and boundaries in survey areas using theodolites, transits, levels, and satellite-based global positioning systems (GPS). Record the results of surveys including the shape, contour, location, elevation, and dimensions of land or land features. Coordinate findings with the work of engineering and architectural personnel, clients, and others concerned with projects. Establish fixed points for use in making maps, using geodetic and engineering instruments. Train assistants and helpers, and direct their work in such activities as performing surveys or drafting maps. Adjust surveying instruments to maintain their accuracy. Plan and conduct ground surveys designed to establish baselines, elevations, and other geodetic measurements. Analyze survey objectives and specifications to prepare survey proposals or to direct others in survey proposal preparation. Develop criteria for survey methods and procedures. Survey bodies of water to determine navigable channels and to secure data for construction of breakwaters, piers, and other marine structures. Conduct research in surveying and mapping methods using knowledge of techniques of photogrammetric map compilation and electronic data processing. Locate and mark sites selected for geophysical prospecting activities such as efforts to locate petroleum or other mineral products. Direct aerial surveys of specified geographical areas. Determine specifications for photographic equipment to be used for aerial photography, as well as altitudes from which to photograph terrain.
17-2011| Aerospace Engineers|Formulate mathematical models or other methods of computer analysis to develop, evaluate, or modify design, according to customer engineering requirements. Plan or conduct experimental, environmental, operational, or stress tests on models or prototypes of aircraft or aerospace systems or equipment. Formulate conceptual design of aeronautical or aerospace products or systems to meet customer requirements or conform to environmental regulations. Plan or coordinate activities concerned with investigating and resolving customers' reports of technical problems with aircraft or aerospace vehicles. Write technical reports or other documentation, such as handbooks or bulletins, for use by engineering staff, management, or customers. Direct or coordinate activities of engineering or technical personnel involved in designing, fabricating, modifying, or testing of aircraft or aerospace products. Evaluate product data or design from inspections or reports for conformance to engineering principles, customer requirements, environmental regulations, or quality standards. Develop design criteria for aeronautical or aerospace products or systems, including testing methods, production costs, quality standards, environmental standards, or completion dates. Analyze project requests, proposals, or engineering data to determine feasibility, productibility, cost, or production time of aerospace or aeronautical products. Maintain records of performance reports for future reference. Diagnose performance problems by reviewing performance reports or documentation from customers or field engineers or inspecting malfunctioning or damaged products. Direct aerospace research and development programs. Research new materials to determine quality or conformance to environmental standards.
17-2021| Agricultural Engineers|Prepare reports, sketches, working drawings, specifications, proposals, and budgets for proposed sites or systems. Provide advice on water quality and issues related to pollution management, river control, and ground and surface water resources. Design and supervise environmental and land reclamation projects in agriculture and related industries. Design agricultural machinery components and equipment, using computer-aided design (CAD) technology. Discuss plans with clients, contractors, consultants, and other engineers so that they can be evaluated and necessary changes made. Design food processing plants and related mechanical systems. Plan and direct construction of rural electric-power distribution systems, and irrigation, drainage, and flood control systems for soil and water conservation. Supervise food processing or manufacturing plant operations. Design structures for crop storage, animal shelter and loading, and animal and crop processing, and supervise their construction. Test agricultural machinery and equipment to ensure adequate performance. Visit sites to observe environmental problems, to consult with contractors, or to monitor construction activities. Conduct educational programs that provide farmers or farm cooperative members with information that can help them improve agricultural productivity. Meet with clients, such as district or regional councils, farmers, and developers, to discuss their needs. Design sensing, measuring, and recording devices, and other instrumentation used to study plant or animal life.
17-2031| Biomedical Engineers|Conduct research, along with life scientists, chemists, and medical scientists, on the engineering aspects of the biological systems of humans and animals. Design and develop medical diagnostic and clinical instrumentation, equipment, and procedures, using the principles of engineering and biobehavioral sciences. Teach biomedical engineering or disseminate knowledge about the field through writing or consulting. Research new materials to be used for products, such as implanted artificial organs. Develop models or computer simulations of human biobehavioral systems to obtain data for measuring or controlling life processes. Adapt or design computer hardware or software for medical science uses. Diagnose and interpret bioelectric data, using signal processing techniques. Design and deliver technology to assist people with disabilities. Evaluate the safety, efficiency, and effectiveness of biomedical equipment. Manage teams of engineers by creating schedules, tracking inventory, creating and using budgets, and overseeing contract obligations and deadlines. Advise and assist in the application of instrumentation in clinical environments. Write documents describing protocols, policies, standards for use, maintenance, and repair of medical equipment.
17-2041| Chemical Engineers|Develop safety procedures to be employed by workers operating equipment or working in close proximity to on-going chemical reactions. Troubleshoot problems with chemical manufacturing processes. Evaluate chemical equipment and processes to identify ways to optimize performance or to ensure compliance with safety and environmental regulations. Conduct research to develop new and improved chemical manufacturing processes. Determine most effective arrangement of operations such as mixing, crushing, heat transfer, distillation, and drying. Perform tests and monitor performance of processes throughout stages of production to determine degree of control over variables such as temperature, density, specific gravity, and pressure. Design and plan layout of equipment. Prepare estimate of production costs and production progress reports for management. Design measurement and control systems for chemical plants based on data collected in laboratory experiments and in pilot plant operations. Develop processes to separate components of liquids or gases or generate electrical currents using controlled chemical processes. Perform laboratory studies of steps in manufacture of new product and test proposed process in small scale operation such as a pilot plant. Direct activities of workers who operate or who are engaged in constructing and improving absorption, evaporation, or electromagnetic equipment.
17-2051| Civil Engineers|Inspect project sites to monitor progress and ensure conformance to design specifications and safety or sanitation standards. Compute load and grade requirements, water flow rates, or material stress factors to determine design specifications. Provide technical advice to industrial or managerial personnel regarding design, construction, or program modifications or structural repairs. Test soils or materials to determine the adequacy and strength of foundations, concrete, asphalt, or steel. Manage and direct the construction, operations, or maintenance activities at project site. Direct or participate in surveying to lay out installations or establish reference points, grades, or elevations to guide construction. Estimate quantities and cost of materials, equipment, or labor to determine project feasibility. Plan and design transportation or hydraulic systems or structures using computer assisted design or drawing tools. Prepare or present public reports on topics such as bid proposals, deeds, environmental impact statements, or property and right-of-way descriptions. Design energy efficient or environmentally sound civil structures. Identify environmental risks and develop risk management strategies for civil engineering projects. Direct engineering activities ensuring compliance with environmental, safety, or other governmental regulations. Analyze survey reports, maps, drawings, blueprints, aerial photography, or other topographical or geologic data. Conduct studies of traffic patterns or environmental conditions to identify engineering problems and assess potential project impact. Design or engineer systems to efficiently dispose of chemical, biological, or other toxic wastes. Develop or implement engineering solutions to clean up industrial accidents or other contaminated sites. Analyze manufacturing processes or byproducts to identify engineering solutions to minimize the output of carbon or other pollutants.
17-2061| Computer Hardware Engineers|Update knowledge and skills to keep up with rapid advancements in computer technology. Build, test, and modify product prototypes using working models or theoretical models constructed with computer simulation. Write detailed functional specifications that document the hardware development process and support hardware introduction. Specify power supply requirements and configuration, drawing on system performance expectations and design specifications. Confer with engineering staff and consult specifications to evaluate interface between hardware and software and operational and performance requirements of overall system. Design and develop computer hardware and support peripherals, including central processing units (CPUs), support logic, microprocessors, custom integrated circuits, and printers and disk drives. Select hardware and material, assuring compliance with specifications and product requirements. Monitor functioning of equipment and make necessary modifications to ensure system operates in conformance with specifications. Test and verify hardware and support peripherals to ensure that they meet specifications and requirements, by recording and analyzing test data. Direct technicians, engineering designers or other technical support personnel as needed. Provide technical support to designers, marketing and sales departments, suppliers, engineers and other team members throughout the product development and implementation process. Store, retrieve, and manipulate data for analysis of system capabilities and requirements. Evaluate factors such as reporting formats required, cost constraints, and need for security restrictions to determine hardware configuration. Analyze user needs and recommend appropriate hardware. Analyze information to determine, recommend, and plan layout, including type of computers and peripheral equipment modifications. Assemble and modify existing pieces of equipment to meet special needs.
17-2071| Electrical Engineers|Operate computer-assisted engineering or design software or equipment to perform engineering tasks. Prepare technical drawings, specifications of electrical systems, or topographical maps to ensure that installation and operations conform to standards and customer requirements. Confer with engineers, customers, or others to discuss existing or potential engineering projects or products. Design, implement, maintain, or improve electrical instruments, equipment, facilities, components, products, or systems for commercial, industrial, or domestic purposes. Direct or coordinate manufacturing, construction, installation, maintenance, support, documentation, or testing activities to ensure compliance with specifications, codes, or customer requirements. Compile data and write reports regarding existing or potential electrical engineering studies or projects. Perform detailed calculations to compute and establish manufacturing, construction, or installation standards or specifications. Prepare specifications for purchases of materials or equipment. Estimate labor, material, or construction costs for budget preparation purposes. Supervise or train project team members as necessary. Conduct field surveys or study maps, graphs, diagrams, or other data to identify and correct power system problems. Investigate customer or public complaints to determine the nature and extent of problems. Oversee project production efforts to assure projects are completed on time and within budget. Inspect completed installations and observe operations to ensure conformance to design and equipment specifications and compliance with operational, safety, or environmental standards. Plan or implement research methodology or procedures to apply principles of electrical theory to engineering projects. Design electrical systems or components that minimize electric energy requirements, such as lighting systems designed to account for natural lighting. Plan layout of electric power generating plants or distribution lines or stations. Assist in developing capital project programs for new equipment or major repairs.
17-2072| Electronics Engineers, Except Computer|Determine project material or equipment needs. Prepare engineering sketches or specifications for construction, relocation, or installation of equipment, facilities, products, or systems. Prepare documentation containing information such as confidential descriptions or specifications of proprietary hardware or software, product development or introduction schedules, product costs, or information about product performance weaknesses. Evaluate project work to ensure effectiveness, technical adequacy, or compatibility in the resolution of complex electronics engineering problems. Analyze electronics system requirements, capacity, cost, or customer needs to determine project feasibility. Confer with engineers, customers, vendors, or others to discuss existing or potential electronics engineering projects or products. Operate computer-assisted engineering or design software or equipment to perform electronics engineering tasks. Prepare necessary criteria, procedures, reports, or plans for successful conduct of the project with consideration given to site preparation, facility validation, installation, quality assurance, or testing. Plan or develop applications or modifications for electronic properties used in components, products, or systems to improve technical performance. Direct or coordinate activities concerned with manufacture, construction, installation, maintenance, operation, or modification of electronic equipment, products, or systems. Recommend repair or design modifications of electronics components or systems, based on factors such as environment, service, cost, or system capabilities. Develop or perform operational, maintenance, or testing procedures for electronic products, components, equipment, or systems. Design electronic components, software, products, or systems for commercial, industrial, medical, military, or scientific applications. Inspect electronic equipment, instruments, products, or systems to ensure conformance to specifications, safety standards, or applicable codes or regulations. Provide technical support or instruction to staff or customers regarding electronics equipment standards. Research or develop electronics technologies for use in electric-drive vehicles. Prepare, review, or maintain maintenance schedules, design documentation, or operational reports or charts. Prepare budget or cost estimates for equipment, construction, or installation projects or control expenditures. Represent employer at conferences, meetings, boards, panels, committees, or working groups to present, explain, or defend findings or recommendations, negotiate compromises or agreements, or exchange information. Research or develop new green electronics technologies, such as lighting, optical data storage devices, or energy efficient televisions.
17-2081| Environmental Engineers|Design or supervise the design of systems, processes, or equipment for control, management, or remediation of water, air, or soil quality. Advise corporations or government agencies of procedures to follow in cleaning up contaminated sites to protect people and the environment. Collaborate with environmental scientists, planners, hazardous waste technicians, engineers, experts in law or business, or other specialists to address environmental problems. Obtain, update, or maintain plans, permits, or standard operating procedures. Serve as liaison with federal, state, or local agencies or officials on issues pertaining to solid or hazardous waste program requirements. Provide technical support for environmental remediation or litigation projects, including remediation system design or determination of regulatory applicability. Prepare, review, or update environmental investigation or recommendation reports. Develop site-specific health and safety protocols, such as spill contingency plans or methods for loading or transporting waste. Inspect industrial or municipal facilities or programs to evaluate operational effectiveness or ensure compliance with environmental regulations. Provide assistance with planning, quality assurance, safety inspection protocols, or sampling as part of a team conducting multimedia inspections at complex facilities. Prepare or present public briefings on the status of environmental engineering projects. Develop proposed project objectives and targets and report to management on progress in attaining them. Coordinate or manage environmental protection programs or projects, assigning or evaluating work. Advise industries or government agencies about environmental policies and standards. Direct installation or operation of environmental monitoring devices or supervise related data collection programs. Monitor progress of environmental improvement programs. Prepare hazardous waste manifests or land disposal restriction notifications. Assess the existing or potential environmental impact of land use projects on air, water, or land. Prepare, maintain, or revise quality assurance documentation or procedures. Assist in budget implementation, forecasts, or administration. Provide environmental engineering assistance in network analysis, regulatory analysis, or planning or reviewing database development. Inform company employees or other interested parties of environmental issues. Develop or present environmental compliance training or orientation sessions. Provide administrative support for projects by collecting data, providing project documentation, training staff, or performing other general administrative duties. Assess, sort, characterize, or pack known or unknown materials.
17-2111| Health and Safety Engineers, Except Mining Safety Engineers and Inspectors|Maintain and apply knowledge of current policies, regulations, and industrial processes. Recommend process and product safety features that will reduce employees' exposure to chemical, physical, and biological work hazards. Inspect facilities, machinery, and safety equipment to identify and correct potential hazards, and to ensure safety regulation compliance. Install safety devices on machinery, or direct device installation. Investigate industrial accidents, injuries, or occupational diseases to determine causes and preventive measures. Review plans and specifications for construction of new machinery or equipment to determine whether all safety requirements have been met. Report or review findings from accident investigations, facilities inspections, or environmental testing. Interview employers and employees to obtain information about work environments and workplace incidents. Evaluate adequacy of actions taken to correct health inspection violations. Review employee safety programs to determine their adequacy. Conduct or direct testing of air quality, noise, temperature, or radiation levels to verify compliance with health and safety regulations. Conduct or coordinate worker training in areas such as safety laws and regulations, hazardous condition monitoring, and use of safety equipment. Provide technical advice and guidance to organizations on how to handle health-related problems and make needed changes. Interpret safety regulations for others interested in industrial safety such as safety engineers, labor representatives, and safety inspectors. Maintain liaisons with outside organizations such as fire departments, mutual aid societies, and rescue teams, so that emergency responses can be facilitated. Write and revise safety regulations and codes. Confer with medical professionals to assess health risks and to develop ways to manage health issues and concerns. Compile, analyze, and interpret statistical data related to occupational illnesses and accidents. Plan and conduct industrial hygiene research. Check floors of plants to ensure that they are strong enough to support heavy machinery. Design and build safety equipment.Advise architects, builders, and other construction personnel on fire prevention equipment and techniques, and on fire code and standard interpretation and compliance. Inspect buildings or building designs to determine fire protection system requirements and potential problems in areas such as water supplies, exit locations, and construction materials. Design fire detection equipment, alarm systems, and fire extinguishing devices and systems. Prepare and write reports detailing specific fire prevention and protection issues, such as work performed, revised codes or standards, and proposed review schedules. Determine causes of fires and ways in which they could have been prevented. Direct the purchase, modification, installation, maintenance, and operation of fire protection systems. Develop plans for the prevention of destruction by fire, wind, and water. Consult with authorities to discuss safety regulations and to recommend changes as necessary. Study the relationships between ignition sources and materials to determine how fires start. Develop training materials and conduct training sessions on fire protection. Conduct research on fire retardants and the fire safety of materials and devices. Attend workshops, seminars, or conferences to present or obtain information regarding fire prevention and protection.Investigate causes of accidents, injuries, or illnesses related to product usage to develop solutions to minimize or prevent recurrence. Evaluate potential health hazards or damage that could occur from product misuse. Participate in preparation of product usage and precautionary label instructions. Recommend procedures for detection, prevention, and elimination of physical, chemical, or other product hazards. Report accident investigation findings. Conduct research to evaluate safety levels for products.
17-2112| Industrial Engineers|Plan and establish sequence of operations to fabricate and assemble parts or products and to promote efficient utilization. Review production schedules, engineering specifications, orders, and related information to obtain knowledge of manufacturing methods, procedures, and activities. Estimate production costs, cost saving methods, and the effects of product design changes on expenditures for management review, action, and control. Draft and design layout of equipment, materials, and workspace to illustrate maximum efficiency using drafting tools and computer. Coordinate and implement quality control objectives, activities, or procedures to resolve production problems, maximize product reliability, or minimize costs. Communicate with management and user personnel to develop production and design standards. Recommend methods for improving utilization of personnel, material, and utilities. Develop manufacturing methods, labor utilization standards, and cost analysis systems to promote efficient staff and facility utilization. Confer with clients, vendors, staff, and management personnel regarding purchases, product and production specifications, manufacturing capabilities, or project status. Apply statistical methods and perform mathematical calculations to determine manufacturing processes, staff requirements, and production standards. Study operations sequence, material flow, functional statements, organization charts, and project information to determine worker functions and responsibilities. Complete production reports, purchase orders, and material, tool, and equipment lists. Record or oversee recording of information to ensure currency of engineering drawings and documentation of production problems. Evaluate precision and accuracy of production and testing equipment and engineering drawings to formulate corrective action plan. Analyze statistical data and product specifications to determine standards and establish quality and reliability objectives of finished product. Regulate and alter workflow schedules according to established manufacturing sequences and lead times to expedite production operations. Direct workers engaged in product measurement, inspection, and testing activities to ensure quality control and reliability. Formulate sampling procedures and designs and develop forms and instructions for recording, evaluating, and reporting quality and reliability data. Implement methods and procedures for disposition of discrepant material and defective or damaged parts, and assess cost and responsibility. Schedule deliveries based on production forecasts, material substitutions, storage and handling facilities, and maintenance requirements.
17-2121| Marine Engineers and Naval Architects|Prepare, or direct the preparation of, product or system layouts and detailed drawings and schematics. Inspect marine equipment and machinery to draw up work requests and job specifications. Conduct analytical, environmental, operational, or performance studies to develop designs for products, such as marine engines, equipment, and structures. Design and oversee testing, installation, and repair of marine apparatus and equipment. Prepare plans, estimates, design and construction schedules, and contract specifications, including any special provisions. Investigate and observe tests on machinery and equipment for compliance with standards. Coordinate activities with regulatory bodies to ensure repairs and alterations are at minimum cost, consistent with safety. Conduct environmental, operational, or performance tests on marine machinery and equipment. Prepare technical reports for use by engineering, management, or sales personnel. Maintain contact with, and formulate reports for, contractors and clients to ensure completion of work at minimum cost. Evaluate operation of marine equipment during acceptance testing and shakedown cruises. Analyze data to determine feasibility of product proposals. Determine conditions under which tests are to be conducted, as well as sequences and phases of test operations. Procure materials needed to repair marine equipment and machinery. Confer with research personnel to clarify or resolve problems and to develop or modify designs. Review work requests and compare them with previous work completed on ships to ensure that costs are economically sound. Act as liaisons between ships' captains and shore personnel to ensure that schedules and budgets are maintained, and that ships are operated safely and efficiently. Perform monitoring activities to ensure that ships comply with international regulations and standards for life saving equipment and pollution preventatives. Check, test, and maintain automatic controls and alarm systems. Supervise other engineers and crew members and train them for routine and emergency duties. Maintain and coordinate repair of marine machinery and equipment for installation on vessels. Maintain records of engineering department activities, including expense records and details of equipment maintenance and repairs. Schedule machine overhauls and the servicing of electrical, heating, ventilation, refrigeration, water, and sewage systems.Conduct stability analyses of ships. Design complete hull and superstructure according to specifications and test data, in conformity with standards of safety, efficiency, and economy. Study design proposals and specifications to establish basic characteristics of craft, such as size, weight, speed, propulsion, displacement, and draft. Oversee construction and testing of prototype in model basin and develop sectional and waterline curves of hull to establish center of gravity, ideal hull form, and buoyancy and stability data. Evaluate performance of craft during dock and sea trials to determine design changes and conformance with national and international standards. Design layout of craft interior, including cargo space, passenger compartments, ladder wells, and elevators. Confer with marine engineering personnel to establish arrangement of boiler room equipment and propulsion machinery, heating and ventilating systems, refrigeration equipment, piping, and other functional equipment.
17-2131| Materials Engineers|Review new product plans and make recommendations for material selection based on design objectives, such as strength, weight, heat resistance, electrical conductivity, and cost. Supervise the work of technologists, technicians, and other engineers and scientists. Analyze product failure data and laboratory test results to determine causes of problems and develop solutions. Conduct or supervise tests on raw materials or finished products to ensure their quality. Plan and implement laboratory operations for the purpose of developing material and fabrication procedures that meet cost, product specification, and performance standards. Design and direct the testing or control of processing procedures. Monitor material performance and evaluate material deterioration. Perform managerial functions, such as preparing proposals and budgets, analyzing labor costs, and writing reports. Plan and evaluate new projects, consulting with other engineers and corporate executives as necessary. Guide technical staff engaged in developing materials for specific uses in projected products or devices. Evaluate technical specifications and economic factors relating to process or product design objectives. Modify properties of metal alloys, using thermal and mechanical treatments. Determine appropriate methods for fabricating and joining materials. Solve problems in a number of engineering fields, such as mechanical, chemical, electrical, civil, nuclear, and aerospace. Supervise production and testing processes in industrial settings, such as metal refining facilities, smelting or foundry operations, or nonmetallic materials production operations. Teach in colleges and universities. Replicate the characteristics of materials and their components with computers. Design processing plants and equipment.
17-2141| Mechanical Engineers|Read and interpret blueprints, technical drawings, schematics, or computer-generated reports. Research, design, evaluate, install, operate, or maintain mechanical products, equipment, systems or processes to meet requirements. Confer with engineers or other personnel to implement operating procedures, resolve system malfunctions, or provide technical information. Develop, coordinate, or monitor all aspects of production, including selection of manufacturing methods, fabrication, or operation of product designs. Investigate equipment failures or difficulties to diagnose faulty operation and recommend remedial actions. Develop or test models of alternate designs or processing methods to assess feasibility, sustainability, operating condition effects, potential new applications, or necessity of modification. Specify system components or direct modification of products to ensure conformance with engineering design, performance specifications, or environmental regulations. Recommend design modifications to eliminate machine or system malfunctions. Assist drafters in developing the structural design of products, using drafting tools or computer-assisted drafting equipment or software. Oversee installation, operation, maintenance, or repair to ensure that machines or equipment are installed and functioning according to specifications. Conduct research that tests or analyzes the feasibility, design, operation, or performance of equipment, components, or systems. Design test control apparatus or equipment or develop procedures for testing products. Provide feedback to design engineers on customer problems or needs. Research and analyze customer design proposals, specifications, manuals, or other data to evaluate the feasibility, cost, or maintenance requirements of designs or applications. Estimate costs or submit bids for engineering, construction, or extraction projects. Recommend the use of utility or energy services that minimize carbon footprints. Evaluate mechanical designs or prototypes for energy performance or environmental impact. Direct the installation, operation, maintenance, or repair of renewable energy equipment, such as heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) or water systems. Design integrated mechanical or alternative systems, such as mechanical cooling systems with natural ventilation systems, to improve energy efficiency. Apply engineering principles or practices to emerging fields, such as robotics, waste management, or biomedical engineering. Write performance requirements for product development or engineering projects. Perform personnel functions, such as supervision of production workers, technicians, technologists, or other engineers. Calculate energy losses for buildings, using equipment such as computers, combustion analyzers, or pressure gauges. Solicit new business. Provide technical customer service. Study industrial processes to maximize the efficiency of equipment applications, including equipment placement. Establish or coordinate the maintenance or safety procedures, service schedule, or supply of materials required to maintain machines or equipment in the prescribed condition. Select or install combined heat units, power units, cogeneration equipment, or trigeneration equipment that reduces energy use or pollution.
17-2151| Mining and Geological Engineers, Including Mining Safety Engineers|Select locations and plan underground or surface mining operations, specifying processes, labor usage, and equipment that will result in safe, economical, and environmentally sound extraction of minerals and ores. Design, implement, and monitor the development of mines, facilities, systems, or equipment. Inspect mining areas for unsafe structures, equipment, and working conditions. Examine maps, deposits, drilling locations, or mines to determine the location, size, accessibility, contents, value, and potential profitability of mineral, oil, and gas deposits. Select or develop mineral location, extraction, and production methods, based on factors such as safety, cost, and deposit characteristics. Prepare technical reports for use by mining, engineering, and management personnel. Monitor mine production rates to assess operational effectiveness. Prepare schedules, reports, and estimates of the costs involved in developing and operating mines. Lay out, direct, and supervise mine construction operations, such as the construction of shafts and tunnels. Devise solutions to problems of land reclamation and water and air pollution, such as methods of storing excavated soil and returning exhausted mine sites to natural states. Evaluate data to develop new mining products, equipment, or processes. Design, develop, and implement computer applications for use in mining operations such as mine design, modeling, or mapping or for monitoring mine conditions. Supervise, train, and evaluate technicians, technologists, survey personnel, engineers, scientists or other mine personnel. Select or devise materials-handling methods and equipment to transport ore, waste materials, and mineral products efficiently and economically. Implement and coordinate mine safety programs, including the design and maintenance of protective and rescue equipment and safety devices. Test air to detect toxic gases and recommend measures to remove them, such as installation of ventilation shafts. Design mining and mineral treatment equipment and machinery in collaboration with other engineering specialists. Conduct or direct mining experiments to test or prove research findings.
17-2161| Nuclear Engineers|Initiate corrective actions or order plant shutdowns in emergency situations. Direct operating or maintenance activities of operational nuclear power plants to ensure efficiency and conformity to safety standards. Monitor nuclear facility operations to identify any design, construction, or operation practices that violate safety regulations and laws or that could jeopardize the safety of operations. Examine accidents to obtain data that can be used to design preventive measures. Design or develop nuclear equipment, such as reactor cores, radiation shielding, or associated instrumentation or control mechanisms. Write operational instructions to be used in nuclear plant operation or nuclear fuel or waste handling and disposal. Prepare construction project proposals that include cost estimates, and discuss proposals with interested parties such as vendors, contractors, and nuclear facility review boards. Perform experiments that will provide information about acceptable methods of nuclear material usage, nuclear fuel reclamation, or waste disposal. Conduct tests of nuclear fuel behavior and cycles or performance of nuclear machinery and equipment to optimize performance of existing plants. Keep abreast of developments and changes in the nuclear field by reading technical journals or by independent study and research. Design and direct nuclear research projects to discover facts, to test or modify theoretical models, or to develop new theoretical models or new uses for current models. Recommend preventive measures to be taken in the handling of nuclear technology, based on data obtained from operations monitoring or from evaluation of test results. Synthesize analyses of test results, and use the results to prepare technical reports of findings and recommendations. Design or oversee construction or operation of nuclear reactors or power plants or nuclear fuels reprocessing and reclamation systems. Analyze available data and consult with other scientists to determine parameters of experimentation and suitability of analytical models.
17-2171| Petroleum Engineers|Assess costs and estimate the production capabilities and economic value of oil and gas wells, to evaluate the economic viability of potential drilling sites. Develop plans for oil and gas field drilling, and for product recovery and treatment. Direct and monitor the completion and evaluation of wells, well testing, or well surveys. Analyze data to recommend placement of wells and supplementary processes to enhance production. Monitor production rates, and plan rework processes to improve production. Interpret drilling and testing information for personnel. Specify and supervise well modification and stimulation programs to maximize oil and gas recovery. Assist engineering and other personnel to solve operating problems. Confer with scientific, engineering, and technical personnel to resolve design, research, and testing problems. Coordinate the installation, maintenance, and operation of mining and oil field equipment. Maintain records of drilling and production operations. Write technical reports for engineering and management personnel. Assign work to staff to obtain maximum utilization of personnel. Evaluate findings to develop, design, or test equipment or processes. Simulate reservoir performance for different recovery techniques, using computer models. Design and implement environmental controls on oil and gas operations. Coordinate activities of workers engaged in research, planning, and development. Take samples to assess the amount and quality of oil, the depth at which resources lie, and the equipment needed to properly extract them. Supervise the removal of drilling equipment, the removal of any waste, and the safe return of land to structural stability when wells or pockets are exhausted. Inspect oil and gas wells to determine that installations are completed. Conduct engineering research experiments to improve or modify mining and oil machinery and operations.
17-3011| Architectural and Civil Drafters|Operate computer-aided drafting (CAD) equipment or conventional drafting station to produce designs, working drawings, charts, forms, and records. Analyze building codes, by-laws, space and site requirements, and other technical documents and reports to determine their effect on architectural designs. Coordinate structural, electrical, and mechanical designs and determine a method of presentation to graphically represent building plans. Draw rough and detailed scale plans for foundations, buildings, and structures, based on preliminary concepts, sketches, engineering calculations, specification sheets, and other data. Lay out and plan interior room arrangements for commercial buildings, using computer-assisted drafting (CAD) equipment and software. Obtain and assemble data to complete architectural designs, visiting job sites to compile measurements as necessary. Supervise, coordinate, and inspect the work of draftspersons, technicians, and technologists on construction projects. Determine procedures and instructions to be followed, according to design specifications and quantity of required materials. Represent architect on construction site, ensuring builder compliance with design specifications and advising on design corrections, under architect's supervision. Check dimensions of materials to be used and assign numbers to lists of materials. Analyze technical implications of architect's design concept, calculating weights, volumes, and stress factors. Prepare cost estimates, contracts, bidding documents, and technical reports for specific projects under an architect's supervision.Produce drawings using computer-assisted drafting systems (CAD) or drafting machines, or by hand using compasses, dividers, protractors, triangles and other drafting devices. Draw maps, diagrams, and profiles, using cross-sections and surveys, to represent elevations, topographical contours, subsurface formations and structures. Draft plans and detailed drawings for structures, installations, and construction projects such as highways, sewage disposal systems, and dikes, working from sketches or notes. Determine the order of work and method of presentation, such as orthographic or isometric drawing. Finish and duplicate drawings and documentation packages, according to required mediums and specifications for reproduction using blueprinting, photography, or other duplicating methods. Review rough sketches, drawings, specifications, and other engineering data received from civil engineers to ensure that they conform to design concepts. Calculate excavation tonnage and prepare graphs and fill-hauling diagrams for use in earth-moving operations. Supervise and train other technologists, technicians and drafters. Correlate, interpret, and modify data obtained from topographical surveys, well logs, and geophysical prospecting reports. Determine quality, cost, strength and quantity of required materials, and enter figures on materials lists. Locate and identify symbols located on topographical surveys to denote geological and geophysical formations or oil field installations. Calculate weights, volumes, and stress factors and their implications for technical aspects of designs. Supervise or conduct field surveys, inspections or technical investigations to obtain data required to revise construction drawings. Explain drawings to production or construction teams and provide adjustments as necessary.
17-3012| Electrical and Electronics Drafters|Consult with engineers to discuss and interpret design concepts, and determine requirements of detailed working drawings. Examine electronic schematics and supporting documents to develop, compute, and verify specifications for drafting data, such as configuration of parts, dimensions, and tolerances. Draft detail and assembly drawings of design components, circuitry and printed circuit boards, using computer-assisted equipment or standard drafting techniques and devices. Locate files relating to specified design project in database library, load program into computer, and record completed job data. Review work orders and procedural manuals and confer with vendors and design staff to resolve problems and modify design. Generate computer tapes of final layout design to produce layered photo masks and photo plotting design onto film. Key and program specified commands and engineering specifications into computer system to change functions and test final layout. Supervise and coordinate work activities of workers engaged in drafting, designing layouts, assembling, and testing printed circuit boards. Compare logic element configuration on display screen with engineering schematics and calculate figures to convert, redesign, and modify element. Review blueprints to determine customer requirements and consult with assembler regarding schematics, wiring procedures, and conductor paths. Select drill size to drill test head, according to test design and specifications, and submit guide layout to designated department. Plot electrical test points on layout sheets and draw schematics for wiring test fixture heads to frames.Use computer-aided drafting equipment or conventional drafting stations, technical handbooks, tables, calculators, and traditional drafting tools, such as boards, pencils, protractors, and T-squares. Draft working drawings, wiring diagrams, wiring connection specifications or cross-sections of underground cables, as required for instructions to installation crew. Assemble documentation packages and produce drawing sets which are checked by an engineer or an architect. Review completed construction drawings and cost estimates for accuracy and conformity to standards and regulations. Confer with engineering staff and other personnel to resolve problems. Measure factors that affect installation and arrangement of equipment, such as distances to be spanned by wire and cable. Design electrical systems, such as lighting systems. Draw master sketches to scale showing relation of proposed installations to existing facilities and exact specifications and dimensions. Study work order requests to determine type of service, such as lighting or power, demanded by installation. Explain drawings to production or construction teams and provide adjustments as necessary. Reproduce working drawings on copy machines or trace drawings in ink. Determine the order of work and the method of presentation, such as orthographic or isometric drawing. Visit proposed installation sites and draw rough sketches of location. Prepare and interpret specifications, calculating weights, volumes, and stress factors. Supervise and train other technologists, technicians and drafters.
17-3013| Mechanical Drafters|Develop detailed design drawings and specifications for mechanical equipment, dies, tools, and controls, using computer-assisted drafting (CAD) equipment. Lay out and draw schematic, orthographic, or angle views to depict functional relationships of components, assemblies, systems, and machines. Coordinate with and consult other workers to design, lay out, or detail components and systems and to resolve design or other problems. Check dimensions of materials to be used and assign numbers to the materials. Review and analyze specifications, sketches, drawings, ideas, and related data to assess factors affecting component designs and the procedures and instructions to be followed. Modify and revise designs to correct operating deficiencies or to reduce production problems. Compute mathematical formulas to develop and design detailed specifications for components or machinery, using computer-assisted equipment. Position instructions and comments onto drawings. Lay out, draw, and reproduce illustrations for reference manuals and technical publications to describe operation and maintenance of mechanical systems. Design scale or full-size blueprints of specialty items such as furniture and automobile body or chassis components. Confer with customer representatives to review schematics and answer questions pertaining to installation of systems. Supervise and train other drafters, technologists, and technicians. Draw freehand sketches of designs, trace finished drawings onto designated paper for the reproduction of blueprints, and reproduce working drawings on copy machines. Shade or color drawings to clarify and emphasize details and dimensions or eliminate background using ink, crayon, airbrush, and overlays.
17-3021| Aerospace Engineering and Operations Technicians|Inspect, diagnose, maintain, and operate test setups and equipment to detect malfunctions. Record and interpret test data on parts, assemblies, and mechanisms. Confer with engineering personnel regarding details and implications of test procedures and results. Adjust, repair or replace faulty components of test setups and equipment. Identify required data, data acquisition plans and test parameters, setting up equipment to conform to these specifications. Construct and maintain test facilities for aircraft parts and systems, according to specifications. Operate and calibrate computer systems and devices to comply with test requirements and to perform data acquisition and analysis. Test aircraft systems under simulated operational conditions, performing systems readiness tests and pre- and post-operational checkouts, to establish design or fabrication parameters. Fabricate and install parts and systems to be tested in test equipment, using hand tools, power tools, and test instruments. Finish vehicle instrumentation and deinstrumentation. Exchange cooling system components in various vehicles.
17-3022| Civil Engineering Technicians|Draft detailed dimensional drawings and design layouts for projects and to ensure conformance to specifications. Calculate dimensions, square footage, profile and component specifications, and material quantities using calculator or computer. Read and review project blueprints and structural specifications to determine dimensions of structure or system and material requirements. Confer with supervisor to determine project details such as plan preparation, acceptance testing, and evaluation of field conditions. Inspect project site and evaluate contractor work to detect design malfunctions and ensure conformance to design specifications and applicable codes. Develop plans and estimate costs for installation of systems, utilization of facilities, or construction of structures. Prepare reports and document project activities and data. Respond to public suggestions and complaints. Report maintenance problems occurring at project site to supervisor and negotiate changes to resolve system conflicts. Evaluate facility to determine suitability for occupancy and square footage availability. Analyze proposed site factors and design maps, graphs, tracings, and diagrams to illustrate findings. Plan and conduct field surveys to locate new sites and analyze details of project sites.
17-3023| Electrical and Electronic Engineering Technicians|Read blueprints, wiring diagrams, schematic drawings, or engineering instructions for assembling electronics units, applying knowledge of electronic theory and components. Identify and resolve equipment malfunctions, working with manufacturers or field representatives as necessary to procure replacement parts. Test electronics units, using standard test equipment, and analyze results to evaluate performance and determine need for adjustment. Adjust or replace defective or improperly functioning circuitry or electronics components, using hand tools or soldering iron. Assemble, test, or maintain circuitry or electronic components, according to engineering instructions, technical manuals, or knowledge of electronics, using hand or power tools. Perform preventative maintenance or calibration of equipment or systems. Maintain system logs or manuals to document testing or operation of equipment. Provide customer support and education, working with users to identify needs, determine sources of problems, or to provide information on product use. Write reports or record data on testing techniques, laboratory equipment, or specifications to assist engineers. Procure parts and maintain inventory and related documentation. Research equipment or component needs, sources, competitive prices, delivery times, or ongoing operational costs. Provide user applications or engineering support or recommendations for new or existing equipment with regard to installation, upgrades, or enhancements. Maintain working knowledge of state-of-the-art tools or software by reading or attending conferences, workshops, or other training. Design basic circuitry and draft sketches for clarification of details and design documentation under engineers' direction, using drafting instruments or computer-aided design (CAD) equipment. Build prototypes from rough sketches or plans. Fabricate parts, such as coils, terminal boards, or chassis, using bench lathes, drills, or other machine tools.Assemble electrical systems or prototypes, using hand tools or measuring instruments. Build, calibrate, maintain, troubleshoot, or repair electrical instruments or testing equipment. Inspect electrical project work for quality control and assurance. Identify solutions to on-site technical design problems involving electrical systems equipment. Collaborate with electrical engineers or other personnel to identify, define, or solve developmental problems. Set up or operate test equipment to evaluate performance of developmental parts, assemblies, or systems under simulated operating conditions. Review existing electrical engineering criteria to identify necessary revisions, deletions, or amendments to outdated material. Modify electrical prototypes, parts, assemblies, or systems to correct functional deviations. Prepare, review, or coordinate ongoing modifications to contract specifications or plans. Build or test electrical components of electric-drive vehicles or prototype vehicles. Interpret test information to resolve design-related problems. Provide technical assistance in resolving electrical engineering problems encountered before, during, or after construction. Install or maintain electrical control systems or solid state equipment. Evaluate engineering proposals, shop drawings, or design comments for sound electrical engineering practice or conformance with established safety or design criteria. Write procedures for the commissioning of electrical installations. Write engineering specifications to clarify design details or functional criteria of experimental electronics units. Create or modify electrical components to be used in renewable energy generation. Plan method or sequence of operations for developing or testing experimental electronic or electrical equipment. Assemble or test solar photovoltaic products, such as inverters or energy management systems. Assess electrical components for consumer electronics applications, such as fuel cells for consumer electronic devices, power saving devices for computers or televisions, or energy efficient power chargers. Prepare electrical project cost or work-time estimates. Participate in the development or testing of electrical aspects of new green technologies, such as lighting, optical data storage devices, or energy efficient televisions. Plan, schedule, or monitor work of project support personnel. Perform supervisory duties, such as recommending work assignments, approving leaves, or completing performance evaluations.
17-3024| Electro-Mechanical Technicians|Test performance of electromechanical assemblies, using test instruments such as oscilloscopes, electronic voltmeters, or bridges. Read blueprints, schematics, diagrams, or technical orders to determine methods and sequences of assembly. Inspect parts for surface defects. Install electrical or electronic parts and hardware in housings or assemblies, using soldering equipment and hand tools. Verify part dimensions or clearances to ensure conformance to specifications, using precision measuring instruments. Align, fit, or assemble component parts, using hand or power tools, fixtures, templates, or microscopes. Develop, test, or program new robots. Prepare written documentation of electromechanical test results. Repair, rework, or calibrate hydraulic or pneumatic assemblies or systems to meet operational specifications or tolerances. Operate, test, or maintain robotic equipment used for green production applications, such as waste-to-energy conversion systems, minimization of material waste, or replacement of human operators in dangerous work environments. Train others to install, use, or maintain robots. Operate metalworking machines to fabricate housings, jigs, fittings, or fixtures.
17-3025| Environmental Engineering Technicians|Maintain project logbook records or computer program files. Record laboratory or field data, including numerical data, test results, photographs, or summaries of visual observations. Perform environmental quality work in field or office settings. Produce environmental assessment reports, tabulating data and preparing charts, graphs, or sketches. Collect and analyze pollution samples, such as air or ground water. Decontaminate or test field equipment used to clean or test pollutants from soil, air, or water. Prepare and package environmental samples for shipping or testing. Maintain process parameters and evaluate process anomalies. Review technical documents to ensure completeness and conformance to requirements. Receive, set up, test, or decontaminate equipment. Prepare permit applications or review compliance with environmental permits. Review work plans to schedule activities. Assist in the cleanup of hazardous material spills. Inspect facilities to monitor compliance with regulations governing substances such as asbestos, lead, or wastewater. Develop work plans, including writing specifications or establishing material, manpower, or facilities needs. Perform statistical analysis and correction of air or water pollution data submitted by industry or other agencies. Arrange for the disposal of lead, asbestos, or other hazardous materials. Evaluate and select technologies to clean up polluted sites, restore polluted air, water, or soil, or rehabilitate degraded ecosystems. Assess the ability of environments to naturally remove or reduce conventional or emerging contaminants from air, water, or soil. Work with customers to assess the environmental impact of proposed construction or to develop pollution prevention programs. Provide technical engineering support in the planning of projects, such as wastewater treatment plants, to ensure compliance with environmental regulations and policies. Model biological, chemical, or physical treatment processes to remove or degrade pollutants. Oversee support staff. Create models to demonstrate or predict the process by which pollutants move through or impact an environment. Improve chemical processes to reduce toxic emissions.
17-3026| Industrial Engineering Technicians|Design new equipment or materials or recommend revision to methods of operation, material handling, equipment layout, or other changes to increase production or improve standards. Test selected products at specified stages in the production process for performance characteristics or adherence to specifications. Compile and evaluate statistical data to determine and maintain quality and reliability of products. Study time, motion, methods, or speed involved in maintenance, production, or other operations to establish standard production rate or improve efficiency. Interpret engineering drawings, schematic diagrams, or formulas for management or engineering staff. Read worker logs, product processing sheets, or specification sheets to verify that records adhere to quality assurance specifications. Verify that equipment is being operated and maintained according to quality assurance standards by observing worker performance. Evaluate data and write reports to validate or indicate deviations from existing standards. Recommend modifications to existing quality or production standards to achieve optimum quality within limits of equipment capability. Aid in planning work assignments in accordance with worker performance, machine capacity, production schedules, or anticipated delays. Operate industrial hygiene equipment in manufacturing environments to reduce exposure to environmental contaminants. Prepare charts, graphs, or diagrams to illustrate workflow, routing, floor layouts, material handling, or machine utilization. Evaluate industrial operations for compliance with permits or regulations related to the generation, storage, treatment, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials or waste. Apply statistical quality control procedures to production test data. Order and purchase manufacturing equipment for production operations.
17-3027| Mechanical Engineering Technicians|Read dials and meters to determine amperage, voltage, electrical output and input at specific operating temperature to analyze parts performance. Analyze test results in relation to design or rated specifications and test objectives, and modify or adjust equipment to meet specifications. Evaluate tool drawing designs by measuring drawing dimensions and comparing with original specifications for form and function using engineering skills. Devise, fabricate, and assemble new or modified mechanical components for products such as industrial machinery or equipment, and measuring instruments. Discuss changes in design, method of manufacture and assembly, and drafting techniques and procedures with staff and coordinate corrections. Operate drill press, grinders, engine lathe, or other machines to modify parts tested or to fabricate experimental parts for testing. Review project instructions and blueprints to ascertain test specifications, procedures, and objectives, and test nature of technical problems such as redesign. Set up and conduct tests of complete units and components under operational conditions to investigate proposals for improving equipment performance. Review project instructions and specifications to identify, modify and plan requirements fabrication, assembly and testing. Record test procedures and results, numerical and graphical data, and recommendations for changes in product or test methods. Confer with technicians and submit reports of test results to engineering department and recommend design or material changes. Prepare parts sketches and write work orders and purchase requests to be furnished by outside contractors. Calculate required capacities for equipment of proposed system to obtain specified performance and submit data to engineering personnel for approval. Draft detail drawing or sketch for drafting room completion or to request parts fabrication by machine, sheet or wood shops. Test equipment, using test devices attached to generator, voltage regulator, or other electrical parts, such as generators or spark plugs. Inspect lines and figures for clarity and return erroneous drawings to designer for correction. Set up prototype and test apparatus and operate test controlling equipment to observe and record prototype test results. Estimate cost factors including labor and material for purchased and fabricated parts and costs for assembly, testing, or installing.
17-3029| Engineering Technicians, Except Drafters, All Other|Interpret or evaluate test results in accordance with applicable codes, standards, specifications, or procedures. Interpret the results of all methods of non-destructive testing (NDT) such as acoustic emission, electromagnetic, leak, liquid penetrant, magnetic particle, neutron radiographic, radiographic, thermal or infrared, ultrasonic, vibration analysis, and visual testing. Select, calibrate, or operate equipment used in the non-destructive testing (NDT) of products or materials. Examine structures or vehicles such as aircraft, trains, nuclear reactors, bridges, dams, and pipelines using non-destructive testing (NDT) techniques. Make radiographic images to detect flaws in objects while leaving objects intact. Identify defects in solid materials using ultrasonic testing techniques. Prepare reports on non-destructive testing (NDT) results. Conduct liquid penetrant tests to locate surface cracks by coating objects with fluorescent dyes, cleaning excess penetrant, and applying developer. Document non-destructive testing (NDT) methods, processes, or results. Produce images of objects on film using radiographic techniques. Visually examine materials, structures, or components using tools and equipment such as endoscopes, closed circuit television systems, and fiber optics for signs of corrosion, metal fatigue, cracks, or other flaws. Supervise or direct the work of non-destructive testing (NDT) trainees or staff. Map the presence of imperfections within objects using sonic measurements. Develop or use new non-destructive testing (NDT) methods such as acoustic emission testing, leak testing, and thermal or infrared testing. Identify defects in concrete or other building materials, using thermal or infrared testing. Evaluate material properties, using radio astronomy, voltage and amperage measurement, or rheometric flow measurement.Diagnose, test, or analyze the performance of electrical components, assemblies, or systems. Review electrical engineering plans to ensure adherence to design specifications and compliance with applicable electrical codes and standards. Calculate design specifications or cost, material, and resource estimates, and prepare project schedules and budgets. Compile and maintain records documenting engineering schematics, installed equipment, installation or operational problems, resources used, repairs, or corrective action performed. Set up and operate standard or specialized testing equipment. Review installation or quality assurance documentation. Participate in training or continuing education activities to stay abreast of engineering or industry advances. Review, develop, and prepare maintenance standards. Install or maintain electrical control systems, industrial automation systems, or electrical equipment, including control circuits, variable speed drives, or programmable logic controllers. Design or modify engineering schematics for electrical transmission and distribution systems or for electrical installation in residential, commercial, or industrial buildings, using computer-aided design (CAD) software. Supervise the construction or testing of electrical prototypes, according to general instructions and established standards. Assist engineers and scientists in conducting applied research in electrical engineering.Collaborate with engineers to implement electromechanical designs in industrial or other settings. Consult with machinists or technicians to ensure that electromechanical equipment or systems meet design specifications. Install or program computer hardware or machine or instrumentation software in microprocessor-based systems. Analyze engineering designs of logic or digital circuitry, motor controls, instrumentation, or data acquisition for implementation into new or existing automated, servomechanical, or other electromechanical systems. Fabricate or assemble mechanical, electrical, or electronic components or assemblies. Modify, maintain, or repair electrical, electronic, or mechanical components, equipment, or systems to ensure proper functioning. Select electromechanical equipment, materials, components, or systems to meet functional specifications. Produce electrical, electronic, or mechanical drawings or other related documents or graphics necessary for electromechanical design, using computer-aided design (CAD) software. Translate electromechanical drawings into design specifications, applying principles of engineering, thermal or fluid sciences, mathematics, or statistics. Select and use laboratory, operational, or diagnostic techniques or test equipment to assess electromechanical circuits, equipment, processes, systems, or subsystems. Specify, coordinate, or conduct quality-control or quality-assurance programs and procedures. Establish and maintain inventory, records, or documentation systems.Set up and operate specialized or standard test equipment to diagnose, test, or analyze the performance of electronic components, assemblies, or systems. Modify, maintain, and repair electronics equipment and systems to ensure that they function properly. Troubleshoot microprocessors or electronic instruments, equipment, or systems, using electronic test equipment such as logic analyzers. Replace defective components or parts, using hand tools and precision instruments. Inspect newly installed equipment to adjust or correct operating problems. Prepare or maintain design, testing, or operational records and documentation. Conduct or supervise the installation and operation of electronic equipment and systems. Assemble circuitry for electronic systems according to engineering instructions, production specifications, or technical manuals. Select electronics equipment, components, or systems to meet functional specifications. Supervise the building or testing of prototypes of electronics circuits, equipment, or systems. Integrate software or hardware components, using computer, microprocessor, or control architecture. Educate equipment operators on the proper use of equipment. Analyze and implement engineering designs for producing electronic devices and systems and microprocessor-based control applications, applying principles of mathematics, digital signal processing, network analysis, and computer engineering. Specify, coordinate, or conduct quality control or quality assurance programs or procedures. Produce electronics drawings or other graphics representing industrial control, instrumentation, sensors, or analog or digital telecommunications networks, using computer-aided design (CAD) software. Evaluate machine or process control requirements to develop device or controller specifications suited to operating environments. Provide support to technical sales staff regarding product characteristics.Interpret engineering drawings, sketches, or diagrams. Plan the flow of work or materials to maximize efficiency. Develop or implement programs to address problems related to production, materials, safety, or quality. Modify equipment or processes to improve resource or cost efficiency. Oversee or inspect production processes. Analyze, estimate, or report production costs. Compile operational data to develop cost or time estimates, schedules, or specifications. Monitor and control inventory. Conduct time and motion studies to identify opportunities to improve worker efficiency. Analyze operational, production, economic, or other data, using statistical procedures. Develop or conduct quality control tests to ensure consistent production quality. Collect and analyze data related to quality or industrial health and safety programs. Prepare layouts of machinery or equipment, using drafting equipment or computer-aided design (CAD) software. Prepare schedules for equipment use or routine maintenance. Prepare reports regarding inventories of raw materials or finished products. Supervise production workers.Recommend corrective or preventive actions to assure or improve product quality or reliability. Prepare layouts, drawings, or sketches of machinery or equipment, such as shop tooling, scale layouts, or new equipment design, using drafting equipment or computer-aided design (CAD) software. Identify and implement new manufacturing technologies, processes, or equipment. Identify opportunities for improvements in quality, cost, or efficiency of automation equipment. Monitor or measure manufacturing processes to identify ways to reduce losses, decrease time requirements, or improve quality. Ensure adherence to safety rules and practices. Coordinate equipment purchases, installations, or transfers. Plan, estimate, or schedule production work. Develop or maintain programs associated with automated production equipment. Select material quantities or processing methods needed to achieve efficient production. Estimate manufacturing costs. Install and evaluate manufacturing equipment, materials, or components. Oversee equipment start-up, characterization, qualification, or release. Develop production, inventory, or quality assurance programs. Create computer applications for manufacturing processes or operations, using computer-aided design (CAD) or computer-assisted manufacturing (CAM) tools. Develop manufacturing infrastructure to integrate or deploy new manufacturing processes. Verify weights, measurements, counts, or calculations and record results on batch records. Design plant layouts or production facilities. Operate complex processing equipment. Train manufacturing technicians on topics such as safety, health, fire prevention, or quality. Erect manufacturing engineering equipment. Perform routine equipment maintenance.Interpret engineering sketches, specifications, or drawings. Assist engineers to design, develop, test, or manufacture industrial machinery, consumer products, or other equipment. Design specialized or customized equipment, machines, or structures. Prepare specifications, designs, or sketches for machines, components, or systems related to the generation, transmission, or use of mechanical or fluid energy. Provide technical support to other employees regarding mechanical design, fabrication, testing, or documentation. Inspect and test mechanical equipment. Conduct failure analyses, document results, and recommend corrective actions. Assemble or disassemble complex mechanical systems. Test machines, components, materials, or products to determine characteristics such as performance, strength, or response to stress. Prepare cost and materials estimates or project schedules. Design molds, tools, dies, jigs, or fixtures for use in manufacturing processes. Prepare layouts of machinery, tools, plants, or equipment. Analyze or estimate production costs, such as labor, equipment, or plant space. Prepare equipment inspection schedules, reliability schedules, work plans, or other records. Assist mechanical engineers in product testing through activities such as setting up instrumentation for automobile crash tests. Oversee, monitor, or inspect mechanical installations or construction projects. Apply testing or monitoring apparatus to operating equipment. Perform routine maintenance on equipment, such as leak detectors, glove boxes, or mechanical pumps.Maintain clean working environments, according to clean room standards. Compute or record photonic test data. Adjust or maintain equipment, such as lasers, laser systems, microscopes, oscilloscopes, pulse generators, power meters, beam analyzers, or energy measurement devices. Set up or operate assembly or processing equipment, such as lasers, cameras, die bonders, wire bonders, dispensers, reflow ovens, soldering irons, die shears, wire pull testers, temperature or humidity chambers, or optical spectrum analyzers. Document procedures, such as calibration of optical or fiber optic equipment. Perform diagnostic analyses of processing steps, using analytical or metrological tools, such as microscopy, profilometry, or ellipsometry devices. Assist engineers in the development of new products, fixtures, tools, or processes. Mix, pour, or use processing chemicals or gases according to safety standards or established operating procedures. Assist scientists or engineers in the conduct of photonic experiments. Assemble fiber optical, optoelectronic, or free-space optics components, subcomponents, assemblies, or subassemblies. Set up or operate prototype or test apparatus, such as control consoles, collimators, recording equipment, or cables. Test or perform failure analysis for optomechanical or optoelectrical products, according to test plans. Assemble or adjust parts or related electrical units of prototypes to prepare for testing. Recommend optical or optic equipment design or material changes to reduce costs or processing times. Monitor inventory levels and order supplies as necessary. Repair or calibrate products, such as surgical lasers. Monitor mechanical factors, such as turbine load or strain information. Terminate, cure, polish, or test fiber cables with mechanical connectors. Design, build, or modify fixtures used to assemble parts. Splice fibers, using fusion splicing or other techniques. Optimize photonic process parameters by making prototype or production devices. Build prototype optomechanical devices for use in equipment such as aerial cameras, gun sights, or telescopes. Assemble components of energy-efficient optical communications systems involving photonic switches, optical backplanes, or optoelectronic interfaces. Lay out cutting lines for machining, using drafting tools.Adhere to all applicable regulations, policies, and procedures for health, safety, and environmental compliance. Inspect finished products for quality and adherence to customer specifications. Set up and operate production equipment in accordance with current good manufacturing practices and standard operating procedures. Calibrate or adjust equipment to ensure quality production, using tools such as calipers, micrometers, height gauges, protractors, or ring gauges. Set up and verify the functionality of safety equipment. Monitor and adjust production processes or equipment for quality and productivity. Troubleshoot problems with equipment, devices, or products. Test products or subassemblies for functionality or quality. Plan and lay out work to meet production and schedule requirements. Start up and shut down processing equipment. Prepare and assemble materials. Provide advice or training to other technicians. Measure and record data associated with operating equipment. Assist engineers in developing, building, or testing prototypes or new products, processes, or procedures. Prepare production documents, such as standard operating procedures, manufacturing batch records, inventory reports, or productivity reports. Install new equipment. Keep production logs. Clean production equipment or work areas. Collect hazardous or non-hazardous waste in correctly labeled barrels or other containers and transfer them to collection areas. Provide production, progress, or changeover reports to shift supervisors. Select cleaning materials, tools, or equipment. Build product subassemblies or final assemblies.Assemble fuel cells or fuel cell stacks according to mechanical or electrical assembly documents or schematics. Build fuel cell prototypes, following engineering specifications. Calibrate equipment used for fuel cell testing. Collect or maintain fuel cell test data. Document or analyze fuel cell test data, using spreadsheets or other computer software. Perform routine or preventive maintenance on fuel cell test equipment. Report results of fuel cell tests. Test fuel cells or fuel cell stacks, using complex electronic equipment. Order fuel cell testing materials. Perform routine vehicle maintenance procedures, such as part replacements or tune-ups. Recommend improvements to fuel cell design or performance. Troubleshoot fuel cell test equipment. Conduct tests or provide technical support for tests of prototype fuel cell engines or thermal management systems. Install or test spark ignition (SI) or compression ignition (CI) engines. Install, calibrate, or operate emissions analyzers, cell assist software, fueling systems, or air conditioning systems in engine testing systems. Perform electrochemical performance or durability testing of solid oxide fuel cells.Collaborate with scientists or engineers to design or conduct experiments for the development of nanotechnology materials, components, devices, or systems. Implement new or enhanced methods or processes for the processing, testing, or manufacture of nanotechnology materials or products. Inspect or measure thin films of carbon nanotubes, polymers, or inorganic coatings, using a variety of techniques or analytical tools. Collect or compile nanotechnology research or engineering data. Develop or modify wet chemical or industrial laboratory experimental techniques for nanoscale use. Prepare capability data, training materials, or other documentation for transfer of processes to production. Prepare detailed verbal or written presentations for scientists, engineers, project managers, or upper management. Produce images or measurements, using tools or techniques such as atomic force microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, optical microscopy, particle size analysis, or zeta potential analysis. Contribute written material or data for grant or patent applications. Install nanotechnology production equipment at customer or manufacturing sites. Supervise or provide technical direction to technicians engaged in nanotechnology research or production. Analyze the life cycle of nanomaterials or nano-enabled products to determine environmental impact. Capture nanoparticle contaminants, using techniques such as electrical fields or electrospinning. Compare the performance or environmental impact of nanomaterials by nanoparticle size, shape, or organization. Mix raw materials or catalysts to manufacture nanoparticles according to specifications, ensuring proper particle size, shape, or organization. Monitor hazardous waste cleanup procedures to ensure proper application of nanocomposites or accomplishment of objectives. Process nanoparticles or nanostructures, using technologies such as ultraviolet radiation, microwave energy, or catalysis.Assemble components, using techniques such as interference fitting, solvent bonding, adhesive bonding, heat sealing, or ultrasonic welding. Assist nanoscientists, engineers, or technologists in processing or characterizing materials according to physical or chemical properties. Assist nanoscientists, engineers, or technologists in writing process specifications or documentation. Calibrate nanotechnology equipment, such as weighing, testing, or production equipment. Compile information or prepare reports on nanotechnology experiments or applications. Inspect nanotechnology work products to ensure quality or adherence to specifications. Maintain accurate record or batch-record documentation of nanoproduction. Maintain work area according to cleanroom or other processing standards. Measure emission of nanodust or nanoparticles during nanocomposite or other nano-scale production processes, using systems such as aerosol detection systems. Measure or mix chemicals or compounds in accordance with detailed instructions or formulas. Measure or report toxicity of engineered nanoparticles. Monitor equipment during operation to ensure adherence to specifications for characteristics such as pressure, temperature, or flow. Operate nanotechnology compounding, testing, processing, or production equipment in accordance with appropriate standard operating procedures, good manufacturing practices, hazardous material restrictions, or health and safety requirements. Perform functional tests of nano-enhanced assemblies, components, or systems, using equipment such as torque gauges or conductivity meters. Produce detailed images or measurement of objects, using tools such as scanning tunneling microscopes or oscilloscopes. Record nanotechnology test results in logs, laboratory notebooks, or spreadsheet software. Repair nanotechnology processing or testing equipment or submit work orders for equipment repair. Set up or execute nanoparticle experiments according to detailed instructions. Test nano-enabled products to determine amount of shedding or loss of nanoparticles.
17-3031| Surveying and Mapping Technicians|Adjust and operate surveying instruments such as prisms, theodolites, and electronic distance-measuring equipment. Perform calculations to determine earth curvature corrections, atmospheric impacts on measurements, traverse closures and adjustments, azimuths, level runs, and placement of markers. Record survey measurements and descriptive data using notes, drawings, sketches, and inked tracings. Search for section corners, property irons, and survey points. Position and hold the vertical rods, or targets, that theodolite operators use for sighting to measure angles, distances, and elevations. Lay out grids, and determine horizontal and vertical controls. Compare survey computations with applicable standards to determine adequacy of data. Set out and recover stakes, marks, and other monumentation. Direct and supervise work of subordinate members of surveying parties. Conduct surveys to ascertain the locations of natural features and man-made structures on the Earth's surface, underground, and underwater using electronic distance-measuring equipment and other surveying instruments. Compile information necessary to stake projects for construction, using engineering plans. Prepare topographic and contour maps of land surveyed, including site features and other relevant information such as charts, drawings, and survey notes. Place and hold measuring tapes when electronic distance-measuring equipment is not used. Collect information needed to carry out new surveys using source maps, previous survey data, photographs, computer records, and other relevant information. Operate and manage land-information computer systems, performing tasks such as storing data, making inquiries, and producing plots and reports. Run rods for benches and cross-section elevations. Perform manual labor, such as cutting brush for lines, carrying stakes, rebar, and other heavy items, and stacking rods. Maintain equipment and vehicles used by surveying crews. Provide assistance in the development of methods and procedures for conducting field surveys.Check all layers of maps to ensure accuracy, identifying and marking errors and making corrections. Design or develop information databases that include geographic or topographic data. Monitor mapping work or the updating of maps to ensure accuracy, the inclusion of new or changed information, or compliance with rules and regulations. Produce or update overlay maps to show information boundaries, water locations, or topographic features on various base maps or at different scales. Determine scales, line sizes, or colors to be used for hard copies of computerized maps, using plotters. Identify and compile database information to create maps in response to requests. Analyze aerial photographs to detect and interpret significant military, industrial, resource, or topographical data. Enter Global Positioning System (GPS) data, legal deeds, field notes, or land survey reports into geographic information system (GIS) workstations so that information can be transformed into graphic land descriptions, such as maps or drawings. Research and combine existing property information to describe property boundaries in relation to adjacent properties, taking into account parcel splits, combinations, or land boundary adjustments. Calculate latitudes, longitudes, angles, areas, or other information for mapmaking, using survey field notes or reference tables. Compare topographical features or contour lines with images from aerial photographs, old maps, or other reference materials to verify the accuracy of their identification. Trace contours or topographic details to generate maps that denote specific land or property locations or geographic attributes. Research resources such as survey maps or legal descriptions to verify property lines or to obtain information needed for mapping. Trim, align, and join prints to form photographic mosaics, maintaining scaled distances between reference points. Answer questions and provide information to the public or to staff members regarding assessment maps, surveys, boundaries, easements, property ownership, roads, zoning, or similar matters. Compute and measure scaled distances between reference points to establish relative positions of adjoining prints and enable the creation of photographic mosaics. Train staff members in duties such as tax mapping, the use of computerized mapping equipment, or the interpretation of source documents. Redraw or correct maps, such as revising parcel maps, to reflect tax code area changes, using information from official records or surveys. Produce presentations of surface or mineral ownership layers by interpreting legal survey plans. Identify, research, and resolve anomalies in legal land descriptions, referring issues to title or survey experts as appropriate. Create survey description pages or historical records related to the mapping activities or specifications of section plats. Lay out and match aerial photographs in sequences in which they were taken and identify any areas missing from photographs. Complete detailed source and method notes describing the location of routine or complex land parcels. Supervise or coordinate activities of workers engaged in plotting data, drafting maps, or producing blueprints, photostats, or photographs. Form three-dimensional images of aerial photographs taken from different locations, using mathematical techniques and plotting instruments.
19-1011| Animal Scientists|Communicate research findings to the scientific community, producers, and the public. Study effects of management practices, processing methods, feed, or environmental conditions on quality and quantity of animal products, such as eggs and milk. Conduct research concerning animal nutrition, breeding, or management to improve products or processes. Study nutritional requirements of animals and nutritive values of animal feed materials. Advise producers about improved products and techniques that could enhance their animal production efforts. Research and control animal selection and breeding practices to increase production efficiency and improve animal quality. Develop improved practices in feeding, housing, sanitation, or parasite and disease control of animals. Crossbreed animals with existing strains or cross strains to obtain new combinations of desirable characteristics. Determine genetic composition of animal populations and heritability of traits, using principles of genetics.
19-1012| Food Scientists and Technologists|Check raw ingredients for maturity or stability for processing and finished products for safety, quality, and nutritional value. Inspect food processing areas to ensure compliance with government regulations and standards for sanitation, safety, quality, and waste management standards. Evaluate food processing and storage operations and assist in the development of quality assurance programs for such operations. Study methods to improve aspects of foods, such as chemical composition, flavor, color, texture, nutritional value, and convenience. Stay up-to-date on new regulations and current events regarding food science by reviewing scientific literature. Test new products for flavor, texture, color, nutritional content, and adherence to government and industry standards. Develop food standards and production specifications, safety and sanitary regulations, and waste management and water supply specifications. Develop new or improved ways of preserving, processing, packaging, storing, and delivering foods, using knowledge of chemistry, microbiology, and other sciences. Confer with process engineers, plant operators, flavor experts, and packaging and marketing specialists to resolve problems in product development. Study the structure and composition of food or the changes foods undergo in storage and processing. Demonstrate products to clients. Develop new food items for production, based on consumer feedback. Search for substitutes for harmful or undesirable additives, such as nitrites.
19-1013| Soil and Plant Scientists|Communicate research or project results to other professionals or the public or teach related courses, seminars, or workshops. Conduct experiments to develop new or improved varieties of field crops, focusing on characteristics such as yield, quality, disease resistance, nutritional value, or adaptation to specific soils or climates. Develop new or improved methods or products for controlling or eliminating weeds, crop diseases, or insect pests. Provide information or recommendations to farmers or other landowners regarding ways in which they can best use land, promote plant growth, or avoid or correct problems such as erosion. Develop environmentally safe methods or products for controlling or eliminating weeds, crop diseases, or insect pests. Investigate soil problems or poor water quality to determine sources and effects. Conduct experiments investigating how soil forms, changes, or interacts with land-based ecosystems or living organisms. Conduct research to determine best methods of planting, spraying, cultivating, harvesting, storing, processing, or transporting horticultural products. Investigate responses of soils to specific management practices to determine the effects of alternative practices on the environment. Develop methods of conserving or managing soil that can be applied by farmers or forestry companies. Study ways to improve agricultural sustainability, such as the use of new methods of composting. Investigate responses of soils to specific management practices to determine the use capabilities of soils and the effects of alternative practices on soil productivity. Identify degraded or contaminated soils and develop plans to improve their chemical, biological, or physical characteristics. Develop ways of altering soils to suit different types of plants. Identify or classify species of insects or allied forms, such as mites or spiders. Provide advice regarding the development of regulatory standards for land reclamation or soil conservation. Study insect distribution or habitat and recommend methods to prevent importation or spread of injurious species. Consult with engineers or other technical personnel working on construction projects about the effects of soil problems and possible solutions to these problems. Perform chemical analyses of the microorganism content of soils to determine microbial reactions or chemical mineralogical relationships to plant growth. Conduct experiments regarding causes of bee diseases or factors affecting yields of nectar or pollen.
19-1021| Biochemists and Biophysicists|Study physical principles of living cells or organisms and their electrical or mechanical energy, applying methods and knowledge of mathematics, physics, chemistry, or biology. Share research findings by writing scientific articles or by making presentations at scientific conferences. Prepare reports or recommendations, based upon research outcomes. Teach or advise undergraduate or graduate students or supervise their research. Manage laboratory teams or monitor the quality of a team's work. Isolate, analyze, or synthesize vitamins, hormones, allergens, minerals, or enzymes and determine their effects on body functions. Determine the three-dimensional structure of biological macromolecules. Develop new methods to study the mechanisms of biological processes. Study the mutations in organisms that lead to cancer or other diseases. Study the chemistry of living processes, such as cell development, breathing and digestion, or living energy changes, such as growth, aging, or death. Investigate the nature, composition, or expression of genes or research how genetic engineering can impact these processes. Design or perform experiments with equipment such as lasers, accelerators, or mass spectrometers. Study spatial configurations of submicroscopic molecules, such as proteins, using x-rays or electron microscopes. Develop or execute tests to detect diseases, genetic disorders, or other abnormalities. Produce pharmaceutically or industrially useful proteins, using recombinant DNA technology. Research the chemical effects of substances, such as drugs, serums, hormones, or food, on tissues or vital processes. Examine the molecular or chemical aspects of immune system functioning.
19-1022| Microbiologists|Investigate the relationship between organisms and disease including the control of epidemics and the effects of antibiotics on microorganisms. Prepare technical reports and recommendations based upon research outcomes. Supervise biological technologists and technicians and other scientists. Provide laboratory services for health departments, for community environmental health programs and for physicians needing information for diagnosis and treatment. Use a variety of specialized equipment such as electron microscopes, gas chromatographs and high pressure liquid chromatographs, electrophoresis units, thermocyclers, fluorescence activated cell sorters and phosphoimagers. Examine physiological, morphological, and cultural characteristics, using microscope, to identify and classify microorganisms in human, water, and food specimens. Study growth, structure, development, and general characteristics of bacteria and other microorganisms to understand their relationship to human, plant, and animal health. Isolate and maintain cultures of bacteria or other microorganisms in prescribed or developed media, controlling moisture, aeration, temperature, and nutrition. Observe action of microorganisms upon living tissues of plants, higher animals, and other microorganisms, and on dead organic matter. Study the structure and function of human, animal and plant tissues, cells, pathogens and toxins. Conduct chemical analyses of substances such as acids, alcohols, and enzymes. Monitor and perform tests on water, food, and the environment to detect harmful microorganisms or to obtain information about sources of pollution, contamination, or infection. Develop new products and procedures for sterilization, food and pharmaceutical supply preservation, or microbial contamination detection. Research use of bacteria and microorganisms to develop vitamins, antibiotics, amino acids, grain alcohol, sugars, and polymers.
19-1023| Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists|Study animals in their natural habitats, assessing effects of environment and industry on animals, interpreting findings and recommending alternative operating conditions for industry. Inventory or estimate plant and wildlife populations. Organize and conduct experimental studies with live animals in controlled or natural surroundings. Make recommendations on management systems and planning for wildlife populations and habitat, consulting with stakeholders and the public at large to explore options. Disseminate information by writing reports and scientific papers or journal articles, and by making presentations and giving talks for schools, clubs, interest groups and park interpretive programs. Study characteristics of animals, such as origin, interrelationships, classification, life histories and diseases, development, genetics, and distribution. Inform and respond to public regarding wildlife and conservation issues, such as plant identification, hunting ordinances, and nuisance wildlife. Coordinate preventive programs to control the outbreak of wildlife diseases. Analyze characteristics of animals to identify and classify them. Prepare collections of preserved specimens or microscopic slides for species identification and study of development or disease. Perform administrative duties such as fundraising, public relations, budgeting, and supervision of zoo staff. Collect and dissect animal specimens and examine specimens under microscope. Check for, and ensure compliance with, environmental laws, and notify law enforcement when violations are identified.
19-1029| Biological Scientists, All Other|Develop new software applications or customize existing applications to meet specific scientific project needs. Communicate research results through conference presentations, scientific publications, or project reports. Create novel computational approaches and analytical tools as required by research goals. Consult with researchers to analyze problems, recommend technology-based solutions, or determine computational strategies. Analyze large molecular datasets such as raw microarray data, genomic sequence data, and proteomics data for clinical or basic research purposes. Keep abreast of new biochemistries, instrumentation, or software by reading scientific literature and attending professional conferences. Develop data models and databases. Compile data for use in activities such as gene expression profiling, genome annotation, and structural bioinformatics. Design and apply bioinformatics algorithms including unsupervised and supervised machine learning, dynamic programming, or graphic algorithms. Manipulate publicly accessible, commercial, or proprietary genomic, proteomic, or post-genomic databases. Direct the work of technicians and information technology staff applying bioinformatics tools or applications in areas such as proteomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and clinical bioinformatics. Provide statistical and computational tools for biologically based activities such as genetic analysis, measurement of gene expression, and gene function determination. Create or modify web-based bioinformatics tools. Improve user interfaces to bioinformatics software and databases. Confer with departments such as marketing, business development, and operations to coordinate product development or improvement. Recommend new systems and processes to improve operations.Maintain accurate laboratory records and data. Design molecular or cellular laboratory experiments, oversee their execution, and interpret results. Conduct research on cell organization and function, including mechanisms of gene expression, cellular bioinformatics, cell signaling, or cell differentiation. Instruct undergraduate and graduate students within the areas of cellular or molecular biology. Compile and analyze molecular or cellular experimental data and adjust experimental designs as necessary. Prepare reports, manuscripts, and meeting presentations. Supervise technical personnel and postdoctoral research fellows. Direct, coordinate, organize, or prioritize biological laboratory activities. Perform laboratory procedures following protocols including deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequencing, cloning and extraction, ribonucleic acid (RNA) purification, or gel electrophoresis. Develop assays that monitor cell characteristics. Evaluate new technologies to enhance or complement current research. Monitor or operate specialized equipment such as gas chromatographs and high pressure liquid chromatographs, electrophoresis units, thermocyclers, fluorescence activated cell sorters, and phosphorimagers. Coordinate molecular or cellular research activities with scientists specializing in other fields. Verify all financial, physical, and human resources assigned to research or development projects are used as planned. Provide scientific direction for project teams regarding the evaluation or handling of devices, drugs, or cells for in vitro and in vivo disease models. Conduct applied research aimed at improvements in areas such as disease testing, crop quality, pharmaceuticals, and the harnessing of microbes to recycle waste. Develop guidelines for procedures such as the management of viruses.Maintain laboratory notebooks that record research methods, procedures, and results. Review, approve, or interpret genetic laboratory results. Plan or conduct basic genomic and biological research related to areas such as regulation of gene expression, protein interactions, metabolic networks, and nucleic acid or protein complexes. Search scientific literature to select and modify methods and procedures most appropriate for genetic research goals. Write grants and papers or attend fundraising events to seek research funds. Evaluate genetic data by performing appropriate mathematical or statistical calculations and analyses. Extract deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or perform diagnostic tests involving processes such as gel electrophoresis, Southern blot analysis, and polymerase chain reaction analysis. Prepare results of experimental findings for presentation at professional conferences or in scientific journals. Attend clinical and research conferences and read scientific literature to keep abreast of technological advances and current genetic research findings. Supervise or direct the work of other geneticists, biologists, technicians, or biometricians working on genetics research projects. Analyze determinants responsible for specific inherited traits, and devise methods for altering traits or producing new traits. Design and maintain genetics computer databases. Design sampling plans or coordinate the field collection of samples such as tissue specimens. Verify that cytogenetic, molecular genetic, and related equipment and instrumentation is maintained in working condition to ensure accuracy and quality of experimental results. Collaborate with biologists and other professionals to conduct appropriate genetic and biochemical analyses. Maintain laboratory safety programs and train personnel in laboratory safety techniques. Create or use statistical models for the analysis of genetic data. Develop protocols to improve existing genetic techniques or to incorporate new diagnostic procedures. Confer with information technology specialists to develop computer applications for genetic data analysis. Evaluate, diagnose, or treat genetic diseases. Conduct family medical studies to evaluate the genetic basis for traits or diseases. Instruct medical students, graduate students, or others in methods or procedures for diagnosis and management of genetic disorders. Plan curatorial programs for species collections that include acquisition, distribution, maintenance, or regeneration.
19-1031| Conservation Scientists|Implement soil or water management techniques, such as nutrient management, erosion control, buffers, or filter strips, in accordance with conservation plans. Monitor projects during or after construction to ensure projects conform to design specifications. Visit areas affected by erosion problems to identify causes or determine solutions. Advise land users, such as farmers or ranchers, on plans, problems, or alternative conservation solutions. Develop or maintain working relationships with local government staff or board members. Apply principles of specialized fields of science, such as agronomy, soil science, forestry, or agriculture, to achieve conservation objectives. Gather information from geographic information systems (GIS) databases or applications to formulate land use recommendations. Compute design specifications for implementation of conservation practices, using survey or field information technical guides or engineering manuals. Participate on work teams to plan, develop, or implement programs or policies for improving environmental habitats, wetlands, or groundwater or soil resources. Conduct fact-finding or mediation sessions among government units, landowners, or other agencies to resolve disputes. Revisit land users to view implemented land use practices or plans. Respond to complaints or questions on wetland jurisdiction, providing information or clarification. Compute cost estimates of different conservation practices, based on needs of land users, maintenance requirements, or life expectancy of practices. Provide information, knowledge, expertise, or training to government agencies at all levels to solve water or soil management problems or to assure coordination of resource protection activities. Analyze results of investigations to determine measures needed to maintain or restore proper soil management. Coordinate or implement technical, financial, or administrative assistance programs for local government units to ensure efficient program implementation or timely responses to requests for assistance. Review proposed wetland restoration easements or provide technical recommendations. Identify or recommend integrated weed and pest management (IPM) strategies, such as resistant plants, cultural or behavioral controls, soil amendments, insects, natural enemies, barriers, or pesticides. Develop, conduct, or participate in surveys, studies, or investigations of various land uses to inform corrective action plans. Manage field offices or involve staff in cooperative ventures. Plan soil management or conservation practices, such as crop rotation, reforestation, permanent vegetation, contour plowing, or terracing, to maintain soil or conserve water. Initiate, schedule, or conduct annual audits or compliance checks of program implementation by local government. Develop water conservation or harvest plans, using weather information systems, irrigation information management systems, or other sources of daily evapotranspiration (ET) data. Survey property to mark locations or measurements, using surveying instruments. Review or approve amendments to comprehensive local water plans or conservation district plans. Enter local soil, water, or other environmental data into adaptive or web-based decision tools to identify appropriate analyses or techniques. Develop or conduct environmental studies, such as plant material field trials or wildlife habitat impact studies. Provide access to programs or training to assist in completion of government groundwater protection plans.Regulate grazing, and help ranchers plan and organize grazing systems in order to manage, improve and protect rangelands and maximize their use. Measure and assess vegetation resources for biological assessment companies, environmental impact statements, and rangeland monitoring programs. Maintain soil stability and vegetation for non-grazing uses, such as wildlife habitats and outdoor recreation. Mediate agreements among rangeland users and preservationists as to appropriate land use and management. Manage forage resources through fire, herbicide use, or revegetation to maintain a sustainable yield from the land. Study rangeland management practices and research range problems to provide sustained production of forage, livestock, and wildlife. Offer advice to rangeland users on water management, forage production methods, and control of brush. Plan and direct construction and maintenance of range improvements such as fencing, corrals, stock-watering reservoirs and soil-erosion control structures. Tailor conservation plans to landowners' goals, such as livestock support, wildlife, or recreation. Develop technical standards and specifications used to manage, protect and improve the natural resources of range lands and related grazing lands. Study grazing patterns to determine number and kind of livestock that can be most profitably grazed and to determine the best grazing seasons. Plan and implement revegetation of disturbed sites. Study forage plants and their growth requirements to determine varieties best suited to particular range. Develop methods for protecting range from fire and rodent damage and for controlling poisonous plants. Manage private livestock operations.Provide visitor services, such as explaining regulations, answering visitor requests, needs and complaints, and providing information about the park and surrounding areas. Conduct field trips to point out scientific, historic, and natural features of parks, forests, historic sites or other attractions. Prepare and present illustrated lectures and interpretive talks about park features. Perform emergency duties to protect human life, government property, and natural features of park. Confer with park staff to determine subjects and schedules for park programs. Assist with operations of general facilities, such as visitor centers. Plan, organize and direct activities of seasonal staff members. Perform routine maintenance on park structures. Prepare brochures and write newspaper articles. Construct historical, scientific, and nature visitor-center displays. Research stories regarding the area's natural history or environment. Interview specialists in desired fields to obtain and develop data for park information programs. Compile and maintain official park photographic and information files. Take photographs and motion pictures for use in lectures and publications and to develop displays. Survey park to determine forest conditions and distribution and abundance of fauna and flora.
19-1032| Foresters|Monitor contract compliance and results of forestry activities to assure adherence to government regulations. Plan and supervise forestry projects, such as determining the type, number and placement of trees to be planted, managing tree nurseries, thinning forest and monitoring growth of new seedlings. Establish short- and long-term plans for management of forest lands and forest resources. Determine methods of cutting and removing timber with minimum waste and environmental damage. Supervise activities of other forestry workers. Perform inspections of forests or forest nurseries. Plan and direct forest surveys and related studies and prepare reports and recommendations. Direct, and participate in, forest fire suppression. Choose and prepare sites for new trees, using controlled burning, bulldozers, or herbicides to clear weeds, brush, and logging debris. Negotiate terms and conditions of agreements and contracts for forest harvesting, forest management and leasing of forest lands. Plan cutting programs and manage timber sales from harvested areas, assisting companies to achieve production goals. Contact local forest owners and gain permission to take inventory of the type, amount, and location of all standing timber on the property. Map forest area soils and vegetation to estimate the amount of standing timber and future value and growth. Monitor forest-cleared lands to ensure that they are reclaimed to their most suitable end use. Plan and implement projects for conservation of wildlife habitats and soil and water quality. Subcontract with loggers or pulpwood cutters for tree removal and to aid in road layout. Provide advice and recommendations, as a consultant on forestry issues, to private woodlot owners, firefighters, government agencies or to companies. Analyze effect of forest conditions on tree growth rates and tree species prevalence and the yield, duration, seed production, growth viability, and germination of different species. Monitor wildlife populations and assess the impacts of forest operations on population and habitats. Develop techniques for measuring and identifying trees. Study different tree species' classification, life history, light and soil requirements, adaptation to new environmental conditions and resistance to disease and insects. Plan and direct construction and maintenance of recreation facilities, fire towers, trails, roads and bridges, ensuring that they comply with guidelines and regulations set for forested public lands. Conduct public educational programs on forest care and conservation.
19-1041| Epidemiologists|Monitor and report incidents of infectious diseases to local and state health agencies. Plan and direct studies to investigate human or animal disease, preventive methods, and treatments for disease. Communicate research findings on various types of diseases to health practitioners, policy makers, and the public. Provide expertise in the design, management and evaluation of study protocols and health status questionnaires, sample selection and analysis. Oversee public health programs, including statistical analysis, health care planning, surveillance systems, and public health improvement. Investigate diseases or parasites to determine cause and risk factors, progress, life cycle, or mode of transmission. Educate healthcare workers, patients, and the public about infectious and communicable diseases, including disease transmission and prevention. Conduct research to develop methodologies, instrumentation and procedures for medical application, analyzing data and presenting findings. Identify and analyze public health issues related to foodborne parasitic diseases and their impact on public policies or scientific studies or surveys. Supervise professional, technical and clerical personnel. Plan, administer and evaluate health safety standards and programs to improve public health, conferring with health department, industry personnel, physicians and others. Prepare and analyze samples to study effects of drugs, gases, pesticides, or microorganisms on cell structure and tissue. Consult with and advise physicians, educators, researchers, government health officials and others regarding medical applications of sciences, such as physics, biology, and chemistry. Teach principles of medicine and medical and laboratory procedures to physicians, residents, students, and technicians. Standardize drug dosages, methods of immunization, and procedures for manufacture of drugs and medicinal compounds.
19-1042| Medical Scientists, Except Epidemiologists|Plan and direct studies to investigate human or animal disease, preventive methods, and treatments for disease. Conduct research to develop methodologies, instrumentation, and procedures for medical application, analyzing data and presenting findings to the scientific audience and general public. Study animal and human health and physiological processes. Follow strict safety procedures when handling toxic materials to avoid contamination. Write and publish articles in scientific journals. Evaluate effects of drugs, gases, pesticides, parasites, and microorganisms at various levels. Use equipment such as atomic absorption spectrometers, electron microscopes, flow cytometers, and chromatography systems. Prepare and analyze organ, tissue, and cell samples to identify toxicity, bacteria, or microorganisms or to study cell structure. Standardize drug dosages, methods of immunization, and procedures for manufacture of drugs and medicinal compounds. Investigate cause, progress, life cycle, or mode of transmission of diseases or parasites. Consult with and advise physicians, educators, researchers, and others regarding medical applications of physics, biology, and chemistry. Teach principles of medicine and medical and laboratory procedures to physicians, residents, students, and technicians. Confer with health departments, industry personnel, physicians, and others to develop health safety standards and public health improvement programs.
19-2011| Astronomers|Study celestial phenomena, using a variety of ground-based and space-borne telescopes and scientific instruments. Analyze research data to determine its significance, using computers. Develop theories based on personal observations or on observations and theories of other astronomers. Collaborate with other astronomers to carry out research projects. Present research findings at scientific conferences and in papers written for scientific journals. Raise funds for scientific research. Measure radio, infrared, gamma, and x-ray emissions from extraterrestrial sources. Teach astronomy or astrophysics. Develop instrumentation and software for astronomical observation and analysis. Review scientific proposals and research papers. Serve on professional panels and committees. Develop and modify astronomy-related programs for public presentation. Calculate orbits and determine sizes, shapes, brightness, and motions of different celestial bodies.
19-2012| Physicists|Perform complex calculations as part of the analysis and evaluation of data, using computers. Describe and express observations and conclusions in mathematical terms. Analyze data from research conducted to detect and measure physical phenomena. Report experimental results by writing papers for scientific journals or by presenting information at scientific conferences. Design computer simulations to model physical data so that it can be better understood. Collaborate with other scientists in the design, development, and testing of experimental, industrial, or medical equipment, instrumentation, and procedures. Direct testing and monitoring of contamination of radioactive equipment, and recording of personnel and plant area radiation exposure data. Observe the structure and properties of matter, and the transformation and propagation of energy, using equipment such as masers, lasers, and telescopes to explore and identify the basic principles governing these phenomena. Develop theories and laws on the basis of observation and experiments, and apply these theories and laws to problems in areas such as nuclear energy, optics, and aerospace technology. Teach physics to students. Develop manufacturing, assembly, and fabrication processes of lasers, masers, infrared, and other light-emitting and light-sensitive devices. Conduct application evaluations and analyze results to determine commercial, industrial, scientific, medical, military, or other uses for electro-optical devices. Develop standards of permissible concentrations of radioisotopes in liquids and gases.
19-2021| Atmospheric and Space Scientists|Broadcast weather conditions, forecasts, or severe weather warnings to the public via television, radio, or the Internet or provide this information to the news media. Prepare weather reports or maps for analysis, distribution, or use in weather broadcasts, using computer graphics. Interpret data, reports, maps, photographs, or charts to predict long- or short-range weather conditions, using computer models and knowledge of climate theory, physics, and mathematics. Develop or use mathematical or computer models for weather forecasting. Gather data from sources such as surface or upper air stations, satellites, weather bureaus, or radar for use in meteorological reports or forecasts. Prepare forecasts or briefings to meet the needs of industry, business, government, or other groups. Measure wind, temperature, and humidity in the upper atmosphere, using weather balloons. Conduct numerical simulations of climate conditions to understand and predict global or regional weather patterns. Direct forecasting services at weather stations or at radio or television broadcasting facilities. Formulate predictions by interpreting environmental data, such as meteorological, atmospheric, oceanic, paleoclimate, climate, or related information. Prepare scientific atmospheric or climate reports, articles, or texts. Perform managerial duties, such as creating work schedules, creating or implementing staff training, matching staff expertise to situations, or analyzing performance of offices. Consult with other offices, agencies, professionals, or researchers regarding the use and interpretation of climatological information for weather predictions and warnings. Conduct meteorological research into the processes or determinants of atmospheric phenomena, weather, or climate. Analyze historical climate information, such as precipitation or temperature records, to help predict future weather or climate trends. Analyze climate data sets, using techniques such as geophysical fluid dynamics, data assimilation, or numerical modeling. Design or develop new equipment or methods for meteorological data collection, remote sensing, or related applications. Apply meteorological knowledge to issues such as global warming, pollution control, or ozone depletion. Research the impact of industrial projects or pollution on climate, air quality, or weather phenomena. Teach college-level courses on topics such as atmospheric and space science, meteorology, or global climate change.
19-2031| Chemists|Analyze organic or inorganic compounds to determine chemical or physical properties, composition, structure, relationships, or reactions, using chromatography, spectroscopy, or spectrophotometry techniques. Conduct quality control tests. Maintain laboratory instruments to ensure proper working order and troubleshoot malfunctions when needed. Prepare test solutions, compounds, or reagents for laboratory personnel to conduct tests. Induce changes in composition of substances by introducing heat, light, energy, or chemical catalysts for quantitative or qualitative analysis. Evaluate laboratory safety procedures to ensure compliance with standards or to make improvements as needed. Compile and analyze test information to determine process or equipment operating efficiency or to diagnose malfunctions. Write technical papers or reports or prepare standards and specifications for processes, facilities, products, or tests. Confer with scientists or engineers to conduct analyses of research projects, interpret test results, or develop nonstandard tests. Develop, improve, or customize products, equipment, formulas, processes, or analytical methods. Direct, coordinate, or advise personnel in test procedures for analyzing components or physical properties of materials. Purchase laboratory supplies, such as chemicals, when supplies are low or near their expiration date. Study effects of various methods of processing, preserving, or packaging on composition or properties of foods.
19-2032| Materials Scientists|Conduct research on the structures and properties of materials, such as metals, alloys, polymers, and ceramics, to obtain information that could be used to develop new products or enhance existing ones. Prepare reports, manuscripts, proposals, and technical manuals for use by other scientists and requestors, such as sponsors and customers. Perform experiments and computer modeling to study the nature, structure, and physical and chemical properties of metals and their alloys, and their responses to applied forces. Plan laboratory experiments to confirm feasibility of processes and techniques used in the production of materials having special characteristics. Determine ways to strengthen or combine materials or develop new materials with new or specific properties for use in a variety of products and applications. Teach in colleges and universities. Devise testing methods to evaluate the effects of various conditions on particular materials. Research methods of processing, forming, and firing materials to develop such products as ceramic dental fillings, unbreakable dinner plates, and telescope lenses. Confer with customers to determine how to tailor materials to their needs. Recommend materials for reliable performance in various environments. Test individual parts and products to ensure that manufacturer and governmental quality and safety standards are met. Supervise and monitor production processes to ensure efficient use of equipment, timely changes to specifications, and project completion within time frame and budget. Test metals to determine conformance to specifications of mechanical strength, strength-weight ratio, ductility, magnetic and electrical properties, and resistance to abrasion, corrosion, heat, and cold. Test material samples for tolerance under tension, compression, and shear to determine the cause of metal failures.
19-2041| Environmental Scientists and Specialists, Including Health|Provide scientific or technical guidance, support, coordination, or oversight to governmental agencies, environmental programs, industry, or the public. Review and implement environmental technical standards, guidelines, policies, and formal regulations that meet all appropriate requirements. Collect, synthesize, analyze, manage, and report environmental data, such as pollution emission measurements, atmospheric monitoring measurements, meteorological or mineralogical information, or soil or water samples. Communicate scientific or technical information to the public, organizations, or internal audiences through oral briefings, written documents, workshops, conferences, training sessions, or public hearings. Provide advice on proper standards and regulations or the development of policies, strategies, or codes of practice for environmental management. Prepare charts or graphs from data samples, providing summary information on the environmental relevance of the data. Conduct environmental audits or inspections or investigations of violations. Monitor effects of pollution or land degradation and recommend means of prevention or control. Design or direct studies to obtain technical environmental information about planned projects. Analyze data to determine validity, quality, and scientific significance and to interpret correlations between human activities and environmental effects. Develop the technical portions of legal documents, administrative orders, or consent decrees. Evaluate violations or problems discovered during inspections to determine appropriate regulatory actions or to provide advice on the development and prosecution of regulatory cases. Develop methods to minimize the impact of production processes on the environment, based on the study and assessment of industrial production, environmental legislation, and physical, biological, and social environments. Determine data collection methods to be employed in research projects or surveys. Process and review environmental permits, licenses, or related materials. Supervise or train students, environmental technologists, technicians, or other related staff. Plan or develop research models, using knowledge of mathematical and statistical concepts. Investigate and report on accidents affecting the environment. Conduct applied research on environmental topics, such as waste control or treatment or pollution abatement methods. Monitor environmental impacts of development activities. Research sources of pollution to determine their effects on the environment and to develop theories or methods of pollution abatement or control.
19-2042| Geoscientists, Except Hydrologists and Geographers|Analyze and interpret geological, geochemical, or geophysical information from sources such as survey data, well logs, bore holes, or aerial photos. Plan or conduct geological, geochemical, or geophysical field studies or surveys, sample collection, or drilling and testing programs used to collect data for research or application. Prepare geological maps, cross-sectional diagrams, charts, or reports concerning mineral extraction, land use, or resource management, using results of fieldwork or laboratory research. Analyze and interpret geological data, using computer software. Investigate the composition, structure, or history of the Earth's crust through the collection, examination, measurement, or classification of soils, minerals, rocks, or fossil remains. Assess ground or surface water movement to provide advice regarding issues such as waste management, route and site selection, or the restoration of contaminated sites. Locate and estimate probable natural gas, oil, or mineral ore deposits or underground water resources, using aerial photographs, charts, or research or survey results. Locate and review research articles or environmental, historical, or technical reports. Communicate geological findings by writing research papers, participating in conferences, or teaching geological science at universities. Measure characteristics of the Earth, such as gravity or magnetic fields, using equipment such as seismographs, gravimeters, torsion balances, or magnetometers. Conduct geological or geophysical studies to provide information for use in regional development, site selection, or development of public works projects. Identify risks for natural disasters, such as mudslides, earthquakes, or volcanic eruptions. Design geological mine maps, monitor mine structural integrity, or advise and monitor mining crews. Advise construction firms or government agencies on dam or road construction, foundation design, land use, or resource management. Inspect construction projects to analyze engineering problems, using test equipment or drilling machinery. Develop applied software for the analysis and interpretation of geological data. Identify deposits of construction materials suitable for use as concrete aggregates, road fill, or in other applications.
19-2043| Hydrologists|Design and conduct scientific hydrogeological investigations to ensure that accurate and appropriate information is available for use in water resource management decisions. Prepare written and oral reports describing research results, using illustrations, maps, appendices, and other information. Study and document quantities, distribution, disposition, and development of underground and surface waters. Install, maintain, and calibrate instruments, such as those that monitor water levels, rainfall, and sediments. Prepare hydrogeologic evaluations of known or suspected hazardous waste sites and land treatment and feedlot facilities. Study public water supply issues, including flood and drought risks, water quality, wastewater, and impacts on wetland habitats. Conduct research and communicate information to promote the conservation and preservation of water resources. Apply research findings to help minimize the environmental impacts of pollution, waterborne diseases, erosion, and sedimentation. Evaluate research data in terms of its impact on issues such as soil and water conservation, flood control planning, and water supply forecasting. Evaluate data and provide recommendations regarding the feasibility of municipal projects, such as hydroelectric power plants, irrigation systems, flood warning systems, and waste treatment facilities. Collect and analyze water samples as part of field investigations or to validate data from automatic monitors. Coordinate and supervise the work of professional and technical staff, including research assistants, technologists, and technicians. Measure and graph phenomena such as lake levels, stream flows, and changes in water volumes. Develop computer models for hydrologic predictions. Study and analyze the physical aspects of the earth in terms of the hydrological components, including atmosphere, hydrosphere, and interior structure. Review applications for site plans and permits and recommend approval, denial, modification, or further investigative action. Develop or modify methods of conducting hydrologic studies. Answer questions and provide technical assistance and information to contractors or the public regarding issues such as well drilling, code requirements, hydrology, and geology. Investigate complaints or conflicts related to the alteration of public waters, gathering information, recommending alternatives, informing participants of progress, and preparing draft orders. Monitor the work of well contractors, exploratory borers, and engineers and enforce rules regarding their activities. Conduct short-term and long-term climate assessments and study storm occurrences. Design civil works associated with hydrographic activities and supervise their construction, installation, and maintenance. Administer programs designed to ensure the proper sealing of abandoned wells.
19-3011| Economists|Teach theories, principles, and methods of economics. Study economic and statistical data in area of specialization, such as finance, labor, or agriculture. Conduct research on economic issues and disseminate research findings through technical reports or scientific articles in journals. Compile, analyze, and report data to explain economic phenomena and forecast market trends, applying mathematical models and statistical techniques. Study the socioeconomic impacts of new public policies, such as proposed legislation, taxes, services, and regulations. Supervise research projects and students' study projects. Formulate recommendations, policies, or plans to solve economic problems or to interpret markets. Develop economic guidelines and standards and prepare points of view used in forecasting trends and formulating economic policy. Provide advice and consultation on economic relationships to businesses, public and private agencies, and other employers. Forecast production and consumption of renewable resources and supply, consumption and depletion of non-renewable resources. Testify at regulatory or legislative hearings concerning the estimated effects of changes in legislation or public policy and present recommendations based on cost-benefit analyses.
19-3022| Survey Researchers|Support, plan, and coordinate operations for single or multiple surveys. Collaborate with other researchers in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of surveys. Consult with clients to identify survey needs and specific requirements, such as special samples. Conduct surveys and collect data, using methods such as interviews, questionnaires, focus groups, market analysis surveys, public opinion polls, literature reviews, and file reviews. Direct and review the work of staff members, including survey support staff and interviewers who gather survey data. Determine and specify details of survey projects, including sources of information, procedures to be used, and the design of survey instruments and materials. Prepare and present summaries and analyses of survey data, including tables, graphs, and fact sheets that describe survey techniques and results. Produce documentation of the questionnaire development process, data collection methods, sampling designs, and decisions related to sample statistical weighting. Monitor and evaluate survey progress and performance, using sample disposition reports and response rate calculations. Analyze data from surveys, old records, or case studies, using statistical software. Direct updates and changes in survey implementation and methods. Hire and train recruiters and data collectors. Conduct research to gather information about survey topics. Review, classify, and record survey data in preparation for computer analysis. Write training manuals to be used by survey interviewers.
19-3031| Clinical, Counseling, and School Psychologists|Compile and interpret students' test results, along with information from teachers and parents, to diagnose conditions and to help assess eligibility for special services. Select, administer, and score psychological tests. Interpret test results and prepare psychological reports for teachers, administrators, and parents. Counsel children and families to help solve conflicts and problems in learning and adjustment. Provide consultation to parents, teachers, administrators, and others on topics such as learning styles and behavior modification techniques. Report any pertinent information to the proper authorities in cases of child endangerment, neglect, or abuse. Maintain student records, including special education reports, confidential records, records of services provided, and behavioral data. Assess an individual child's needs, limitations, and potential, using observation, review of school records, and consultation with parents and school personnel. Collect and analyze data to evaluate the effectiveness of academic programs and other services, such as behavioral management systems. Promote an understanding of child development and its relationship to learning and behavior. Develop individualized educational plans in collaboration with teachers and other staff members. Attend workshops, seminars, or professional meetings to remain informed of new developments in school psychology. Serve as a resource to help families and schools deal with crises, such as separation and loss. Collaborate with other educational professionals to develop teaching strategies and school programs. Refer students and their families to appropriate community agencies for medical, vocational, or social services. Initiate and direct efforts to foster tolerance, understanding, and appreciation of diversity in school communities. Design classes and programs to meet the needs of special students. Provide educational programs on topics such as classroom management, teaching strategies, or parenting skills. Conduct research to generate new knowledge that can be used to address learning and behavior issues.Interact with clients to assist them in gaining insight, defining goals, and planning action to achieve effective personal, social, educational, and vocational development and adjustment. Identify psychological, emotional, or behavioral issues and diagnose disorders, using information obtained from interviews, tests, records, and reference materials. Use a variety of treatment methods, such as psychotherapy, hypnosis, behavior modification, stress reduction therapy, psychodrama, and play therapy. Counsel individuals and groups regarding problems, such as stress, substance abuse, and family situations, to modify behavior or to improve personal, social, and vocational adjustment. Discuss the treatment of problems with clients. Write reports on clients and maintain required paperwork. Consult with or provide consultation to other doctors, therapists, or clinicians regarding patient care. Obtain and study medical, psychological, social, and family histories by interviewing individuals, couples, or families and by reviewing records. Evaluate the effectiveness of counseling or treatments and the accuracy and completeness of diagnoses, modifying plans and diagnoses as necessary. Select, administer, score, and interpret psychological tests to obtain information on individuals' intelligence, achievements, interests, and personalities. Develop and implement individual treatment plans, specifying type, frequency, intensity, and duration of therapy. Refer clients to other specialists, institutions, or support services as necessary. Maintain current knowledge of relevant research. Consult reference material, such as textbooks, manuals, and journals, to identify symptoms, make diagnoses, and develop approaches to treatment. Observe individuals at play, in group interactions, or in other contexts to detect indications of mental deficiency, abnormal behavior, or maladjustment. Provide occupational, educational, and other information to individuals so that they can make educational and vocational plans. Plan and develop accredited psychological service programs in psychiatric centers or hospitals, in collaboration with psychiatrists and other professional staff. Direct, coordinate, and evaluate activities of staff and interns engaged in patient assessment and treatment. Develop, direct, and participate in training programs for staff and students. Provide psychological or administrative services and advice to private firms and community agencies regarding mental health programs or individual cases.Collect information about individuals or clients, using interviews, case histories, observational techniques, and other assessment methods. Document patient information including session notes, progress notes, recommendations, and treatment plans. Counsel individuals, groups, or families to help them understand problems, deal with crisis situations, define goals, and develop realistic action plans. Develop therapeutic and treatment plans based on clients' interests, abilities, and needs. Supervise interns, clinicians in training, and other counselors. Advise clients on how they could be helped by counseling. Analyze data such as interview notes, test results, and reference manuals to identify symptoms and to diagnose the nature of clients' problems. Consult with other professionals, agencies, or universities to discuss therapies, treatments, counseling resources or techniques, and to share occupational information. Evaluate the results of counseling methods to determine the reliability and validity of treatments. Refer clients to specialists or to other institutions for noncounseling treatment of problems. Provide consulting services, including educational programs, outreach programs, and prevention talks to schools, social service agencies, businesses, and the general public. Select, administer, and interpret psychological tests to assess intelligence, aptitudes, abilities, or interests.
19-3032| Industrial-Organizational Psychologists|Formulate and implement training programs, applying principles of learning and individual differences. Conduct research studies of physical work environments, organizational structures, communication systems, group interactions, morale, and motivation to assess organizational functioning. Conduct presentations on research findings for clients and at research meetings. Provide expert testimony in employment lawsuits. Study consumers' reactions to new products and package designs, and to advertising efforts, using surveys and tests. Review research literature to remain current on psychological science issues. Develop interview techniques, rating scales, and psychological tests used to assess skills, abilities, and interests for the purpose of employee selection, placement, and promotion. Conduct individual assessments, including interpreting measures and providing feedback for selection, placement, and promotion. Write articles, white papers, and reports to share research findings and educate others. Develop new business by contacting potential clients, making sales presentations, and writing proposals. Develop and implement employee selection and placement programs. Identify training and development needs. Train clients to administer human resources functions including testing, selection, and performance management. Facilitate organizational development and change. Analyze job requirements and content to establish criteria for classification, selection, training, and other related personnel functions. Assess employee performance. Observe and interview workers to obtain information about the physical, mental, and educational requirements of jobs as well as information about aspects such as job satisfaction. Coach senior executives and managers on leadership and performance. Study organizational effectiveness, productivity, and efficiency, including the nature of workplace supervision and leadership. Write reports on research findings and implications to contribute to general knowledge and to suggest potential changes in organizational functioning. Participate in mediation and dispute resolution. Provide advice on best practices and implementation for selection. Counsel workers about job and career-related issues. Advise management concerning personnel, managerial, and marketing policies and practices and their potential effects on organizational effectiveness and efficiency.
19-3039| Psychologists, All Other|Conduct neuropsychological evaluations such as assessments of intelligence, academic ability, attention, concentration, sensory-motor function, language, learning, and memory. Write or prepare detailed clinical neuropsychological reports using data from psychological or neuropsychological tests, self-report measures, rating scales, direct observations, or interviews. Diagnose and treat conditions involving injury to the central nervous system such as cerebrovascular accidents, neoplasms, infectious or inflammatory diseases, degenerative diseases, head traumas, demyelinating diseases and various forms of dementing illnesses. Interview patients to obtain comprehensive medical histories. Establish neurobehavioral baseline measures for monitoring progressive cerebral disease or recovery. Diagnose and treat psychiatric populations for conditions such as somatoform disorder, dementias, and psychoses. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, and participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in neuropsychology. Diagnose and treat neural and psychological conditions in medical and surgical populations such as patients with early dementing illness or chronic pain with a neurological basis. Distinguish between psychogenic and neurogenic syndromes, two or more suspected etiologies of cerebral dysfunction, or between disorders involving complex seizures. Diagnose and treat pediatric populations for conditions such as learning disabilities with developmental or organic bases. Provide education or counseling to individuals and families. Participate in educational programs, in-service training, or workshops to remain current in methods and techniques. Educate and supervise practicum students, psychology interns, or hospital staff. Compare patients' progress before and after pharmacologic, surgical, or behavioral interventions. Design or implement rehabilitation plans for patients with cognitive dysfunction. Diagnose and treat conditions such as chemical dependency, alcohol dependency, Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) dementia, and environmental toxin exposure. Provide psychotherapy, behavior therapy, or other counseling interventions to patients with neurological disorders. Identify and communicate risks associated with specific neurological surgical procedures such as epilepsy surgery.
19-3041| Sociologists|Prepare publications and reports containing research findings. Analyze and interpret data to increase the understanding of human social behavior. Plan and conduct research to develop and test theories about societal issues such as crime, group relations, poverty, and aging. Collect data about the attitudes, values, and behaviors of people in groups, using observation, interviews, and review of documents. Develop, implement, and evaluate methods of data collection, such as questionnaires or interviews. Teach sociology. Direct work of statistical clerks, statisticians, and others who compile and evaluate research data. Consult with and advise individuals such as administrators, social workers, and legislators regarding social issues and policies, as well as the implications of research findings. Collaborate with research workers in other disciplines. Develop approaches to the solution of groups' problems, based on research findings in sociology and related disciplines. Observe group interactions and role affiliations to collect data, identify problems, evaluate progress, and determine the need for additional change. Develop problem intervention procedures, using techniques such as interviews, consultations, role playing, and participant observation of group interactions.
19-3051| Urban and Regional Planners|Hold public meetings with government officials, social scientists, lawyers, developers, the public, or special interest groups to formulate, develop, or address issues regarding land use or community plans. Design, promote, or administer government plans or policies affecting land use, zoning, public utilities, community facilities, housing, or transportation. Advise planning officials on project feasibility, cost-effectiveness, regulatory conformance, or possible alternatives. Recommend approval, denial, or conditional approval of proposals. Discuss with planning officials the purpose of land use projects, such as transportation, conservation, residential, commercial, industrial, or community use. Conduct field investigations, surveys, impact studies, or other research to compile and analyze data on economic, social, regulatory, or physical factors affecting land use. Determine the effects of regulatory limitations on land use projects. Advocate for sustainability to community groups, government agencies, the general public, or special interest groups. Mediate community disputes or assist in developing alternative plans or recommendations for programs or projects. Keep informed about economic or legal issues involved in zoning codes, building codes, or environmental regulations. Assess the feasibility of land use proposals and identify necessary changes. Supervise or coordinate the work of urban planning technicians or technologists. Identify opportunities or develop plans for sustainability projects or programs to improve energy efficiency, minimize pollution or waste, or restore natural systems. Create, prepare, or requisition graphic or narrative reports on land use data, including land area maps overlaid with geographic variables such as population density. Evaluate proposals for infrastructure projects or other development for environmental impact or sustainability. Coordinate work with economic consultants or architects during the formulation of plans or the design of large pieces of infrastructure. Review and evaluate environmental impact reports pertaining to private or public planning projects or programs. Develop plans for public or alternative transportation systems for urban or regional locations to reduce carbon output associated with transportation.
19-3091| Anthropologists and Archeologists|Teach and mentor undergraduate and graduate students in anthropology. Plan and direct research to characterize and compare the economic, demographic, health care, social, political, linguistic, and religious institutions of distinct cultural groups, communities, and organizations. Collect information and make judgments through observation, interviews, and review of documents. Write about and present research findings for a variety of specialized and general audiences. Formulate general rules that describe and predict the development and behavior of cultures and social institutions. Identify culturally specific beliefs and practices affecting health status and access to services for distinct populations and communities, in collaboration with medical and public health officials. Advise government agencies, private organizations, and communities regarding proposed programs, plans, and policies and their potential impacts on cultural institutions, organizations, and communities. Explain the origins and physical, social, or cultural development of humans, including physical attributes, cultural traditions, beliefs, languages, resource management practices, and settlement patterns. Develop intervention procedures, using techniques such as individual and focus group interviews, consultations, and participant observation of social interaction. Collaborate with economic development planners to decide on the implementation of proposed development policies, plans, and programs based on culturally institutionalized barriers and facilitating circumstances. Construct and test data collection methods. Examine museum collections of hominid fossils to classify anatomical and physiological variations and to determine how they fit into evolutionary theory. Train others in the application of ethnographic research methods to solve problems in organizational effectiveness, communications, technology development, policy making, and program planning. Enhance the cultural sensitivity of elementary and secondary curricula and classroom interactions in collaboration with educators and teachers. Create data records for use in describing and analyzing social patterns and processes, using photography, videography, and audio recordings. Organize public exhibits and displays to promote public awareness of diverse and distinctive cultural traditions. Build and use text-based database management systems to support the analysis of detailed first-hand observational records, or field notes. Identify key individual cultural collaborators, using reputational and positional selection techniques. Apply systematic sampling techniques to ensure the accuracy, completeness, precision, and representativeness of individuals selected for sample surveys. Study archival collections of primary historical sources to help explain the origins and development of cultural patterns. Participate in forensic activities, such as tooth and bone structure identification, in conjunction with police departments and pathologists. Gather and analyze artifacts and skeletal remains to increase knowledge of ancient cultures. Observe and measure bodily variations and physical attributes of different human groups. Apply traditional ecological knowledge and assessments of culturally distinctive land and resource management institutions to assist in the resolution of conflicts over habitat protection and resource enhancement. Conduct participatory action research in communities and organizations to assess how work is done and to design work systems, technologies, and environments. Analyze and characterize user experiences and institutional settings to assist consumer product developers, technology developers, and software engineers with the design of innovative products and services. Observe the production, distribution, and consumption of food to identify and mitigate threats to food security. Build geographic information systems (GIS) to record, analyze, and cartographically represent the distribution of languages, cultural and natural resources, land use, and settlement patterns of specific populations.Study objects and structures recovered by excavation to identify, date, and authenticate them and to interpret their significance. Research, survey, or assess sites of past societies and cultures in search of answers to specific research questions. Write, present, and publish reports that record site history, methodology, and artifact analysis results, along with recommendations for conserving and interpreting findings. Describe artifacts' physical properties or attributes, such as the materials from which artifacts are made and their size, shape, function, and decoration. Present findings from archeological research to peers and the general public. Compare findings from one site with archeological data from other sites to find similarities or differences. Record the exact locations and conditions of artifacts uncovered in diggings or surveys, using drawings and photographs as necessary. Assess archeological sites for resource management, development, or conservation purposes and recommend methods for site protection. Create a grid of each site and draw and update maps of unit profiles, stratum surfaces, features, and findings. Collect artifacts made of stone, bone, metal, and other materials, placing them in bags and marking them to show where they were found. Consult site reports, existing artifacts, and topographic maps to identify archeological sites. Teach archeology at colleges and universities. Develop and test theories concerning the origin and development of past cultures. Lead field training sites and train field staff, students, and volunteers in excavation methods. Create artifact typologies to organize and make sense of past material cultures. Clean, restore, and preserve artifacts.
19-3092| Geographers|Write and present reports of research findings. Create and modify maps, graphs, or diagrams, using geographical information software and related equipment, and principles of cartography such as coordinate systems, longitude, latitude, elevation, topography, and map scales. Gather and compile geographic data from sources including censuses, field observations, satellite imagery, aerial photographs, and existing maps. Analyze geographic distributions of physical and cultural phenomena on local, regional, continental, or global scales. Develop, operate, and maintain geographical information computer systems, including hardware, software, plotters, digitizers, printers, and video cameras. Provide consulting services in fields such as resource development and management, business location and market area analysis, environmental hazards, regional cultural history, and urban social planning. Teach geography. Provide geographical information systems support to the private and public sectors. Study the economic, political, and cultural characteristics of a specific region's population. Locate and obtain existing geographic information databases. Conduct field work at outdoor sites. Collect data on physical characteristics of specified areas, such as geological formations, climates, and vegetation, using surveying or meteorological equipment.
19-3093| Historians|Conserve and preserve manuscripts, records, and other artifacts. Gather historical data from sources such as archives, court records, diaries, news files, and photographs, as well as collect data sources such as books, pamphlets, and periodicals. Conduct historical research as a basis for the identification, conservation, and reconstruction of historic places and materials. Research and prepare manuscripts in support of public programming and the development of exhibits at historic sites, museums, libraries, and archives. Present historical accounts in terms of individuals or social, ethnic, political, economic, or geographic groupings. Organize data, and analyze and interpret its authenticity and relative significance. Research the history of a particular country or region, or of a specific time period. Conduct historical research, and publish or present findings and theories. Recommend actions related to historical art, such as which items to add to a collection or which items to display in an exhibit. Determine which topics to research, or pursue research topics specified by clients or employers. Speak to various groups, organizations, and clubs to promote the aims and activities of historical societies. Advise or consult with individuals and institutions regarding issues such as the historical authenticity of materials or the customs of a specific historical period. Prepare publications and exhibits, or review those prepared by others, to ensure their historical accuracy. Trace historical development in a particular field, such as social, cultural, political, or diplomatic history. Organize information for publication and for other means of dissemination, such as use in CD-ROMs or Internet sites. Interview people to gather information about historical events and to record oral histories. Collect detailed information on individuals for use in biographies. Edit historical society publications. Coordinate activities of workers engaged in cataloging and filing materials. Translate or request translation of reference materials. Teach and conduct research in colleges, universities, museums, and other research agencies and schools.
19-3094| Political Scientists|Teach political science. Disseminate research results through academic publications, written reports, or public presentations. Identify issues for research and analysis. Develop and test theories, using information from interviews, newspapers, periodicals, case law, historical papers, polls, or statistical sources. Maintain current knowledge of government policy decisions. Collect, analyze, and interpret data such as election results and public opinion surveys, reporting on findings, recommendations, and conclusions. Interpret and analyze policies, public issues, legislation, or the operations of governments, businesses, and organizations. Evaluate programs and policies, and make related recommendations to institutions and organizations. Write drafts of legislative proposals, and prepare speeches, correspondence, and policy papers for governmental use.
19-4011| Agricultural and Food Science Technicians|Record data pertaining to experimentation, research, or animal care. Measure or weigh ingredients used in laboratory testing. Prepare data summaries, reports, or analyses that include results, charts, or graphs to document research findings and results. Set up laboratory or field equipment as required for site testing. Prepare laboratory samples for analysis, following proper protocols to ensure that they will be stored, prepared, and disposed of efficiently and effectively. Examine animals or crop specimens to determine the presence of diseases or other problems. Collect animal or crop samples. Supervise pest or weed control operations, including locating and identifying pests or weeds, selecting chemicals and application methods, or scheduling application. Supervise or train agricultural technicians or farm laborers. Respond to general inquiries or requests from the public. Perform crop production duties, such as tilling, hoeing, pruning, weeding, or harvesting crops. Record environmental data from field samples of soil, air, water, or pests to monitor the effectiveness of integrated pest management (IPM) practices. Conduct studies of nitrogen or alternative fertilizer application methods, quantities, or timing to ensure satisfaction of crop needs and minimization of leaching, runoff, or denitrification. Conduct insect or plant disease surveys. Maintain or repair agricultural facilities, equipment, or tools to ensure operational readiness, safety, and cleanliness. Prepare land for cultivated crops, orchards, or vineyards by plowing, discing, leveling, or contouring. Operate farm machinery, including tractors, plows, mowers, combines, balers, sprayers, earthmoving equipment, or trucks. Perform laboratory or field testing, using spectrometers, nitrogen determination apparatus, air samplers, centrifuges, or potential hydrogen (pH) meters to perform tests. Perform tests on seeds to evaluate seed viability. Perform general nursery duties, such as propagating standard varieties of plant materials, collecting and germinating seeds, maintaining cuttings of plants, or controlling environmental conditions. Devise cultural methods or environmental controls for plants for which guidelines are sketchy or nonexistent. Prepare culture media, following standard procedures. Transplant trees, vegetables, or horticultural plants. Prepare or present agricultural demonstrations. Determine the germination rates of seeds planted in specified areas.Record or compile test results or prepare graphs, charts, or reports. Conduct standardized tests on food, beverages, additives, or preservatives to ensure compliance with standards and regulations regarding factors such as color, texture, or nutrients. Maintain records of testing results or other documents as required by state or other governing agencies. Taste or smell foods or beverages to ensure that flavors meet specifications or to select samples with specific characteristics. Monitor and control temperature of products. Compute moisture or salt content, percentages of ingredients, formulas, or other product factors, using mathematical and chemical procedures. Perform regular maintenance of laboratory equipment by inspecting, calibrating, cleaning, or sterilizing. Analyze test results to classify products or compare results with standard tables. Provide assistance to food scientists or technologists in research and development, production technology, or quality control. Train newly hired laboratory personnel. Measure, test, or weigh bottles, cans, or other containers to ensure that hardness, strength, or dimensions meet specifications. Mix, blend, or cultivate ingredients to make reagents or to manufacture food or beverage products. Prepare or incubate slides with cell cultures. Examine chemical or biological samples to identify cell structures or to locate bacteria or extraneous material, using a microscope. Order supplies needed to maintain inventories in laboratories or in storage facilities of food or beverage processing plants.
19-4021| Biological Technicians|Conduct research or assist in the conduct of research, including the collection of information and samples, such as blood, water, soil, plants and animals. Analyze experimental data and interpret results to write reports and summaries of findings. Keep detailed logs of all work-related activities. Use computers, computer-interfaced equipment, robotics or high-technology industrial applications to perform work duties. Clean, maintain and prepare supplies and work areas. Set up, adjust, calibrate, clean, maintain, and troubleshoot laboratory and field equipment. Measure or weigh compounds and solutions for use in testing or animal feed. Isolate, identify and prepare specimens for examination. Conduct standardized biological, microbiological or biochemical tests and laboratory analyses to evaluate the quantity or quality of physical or chemical substances in food or other products. Examine animals and specimens to detect the presence of disease or other problems. Participate in the research, development, or manufacturing of medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations. Monitor laboratory work to ensure compliance with set standards. Provide technical support and services for scientists and engineers working in fields such as agriculture, environmental science, resource management, biology, and health sciences. Monitor and observe experiments, recording production and test data for evaluation by research personnel. Feed livestock or laboratory animals. Conduct or supervise operational programs such as fish hatcheries, greenhouses and livestock production programs.
19-4031| Chemical Technicians|Conduct chemical or physical laboratory tests to assist scientists in making qualitative or quantitative analyses of solids, liquids, or gaseous materials. Maintain, clean, or sterilize laboratory instruments or equipment. Set up and conduct chemical experiments, tests, and analyses, using techniques such as chromatography, spectroscopy, physical or chemical separation techniques, or microscopy. Monitor product quality to ensure compliance with standards and specifications. Prepare chemical solutions for products or processes, following standardized formulas, or create experimental formulas. Provide and maintain a safe work environment by participating in safety programs, committees, or teams and by conducting laboratory or plant safety audits. Provide technical support or assistance to chemists or engineers. Train new employees on topics such as the proper operation of laboratory equipment. Order and inventory materials to maintain supplies. Compile and interpret results of tests and analyses. Develop or conduct programs of sampling and analysis to maintain quality standards of raw materials, chemical intermediates, or products. Write technical reports or prepare graphs or charts to document experimental results. Direct or monitor other workers producing chemical products. Design or fabricate experimental apparatus to develop new products or processes. Operate experimental pilot plants, assisting with experimental design. Develop new chemical engineering processes or production techniques.
19-4041| Geological and Petroleum Technicians|Prepare notes, sketches, geological maps, or cross-sections. Read and study reports in order to compile information and data for geological and geophysical prospecting. Interview individuals, and research public databases in order to obtain information. Assemble, maintain, or distribute information for library or record systems. Operate or adjust equipment or apparatus used to obtain geological data. Plan and direct activities of workers who operate equipment to collect data. Set up or direct set-up of instruments used to collect geological data. Record readings in order to compile data used in prospecting for oil or gas. Supervise oil, water, or gas well-drilling activities. Collect samples or cuttings, using equipment or hand tools. Create photographic recordings of information, using equipment. Measure geological characteristics used in prospecting for oil or gas, using measuring instruments. Evaluate and interpret core samples and cuttings, and other geological data used in prospecting for oil or gas. Diagnose or repair malfunctioning instruments or equipment, using manufacturers' manuals and hand tools. Prepare and attach packing instructions to shipping containers.Test and analyze samples to determine their content and characteristics, using laboratory apparatus or testing equipment. Collect or prepare solid or fluid samples for analysis. Compile, log, or record testing or operational data for review and further analysis. Assemble, operate, or maintain field or laboratory testing, measuring, or mechanical equipment. Participate in geological, geophysical, geochemical, hydrographic, or oceanographic surveys, prospecting field trips, exploratory drilling, well logging, or underground mine survey programs. Prepare or review professional, technical, or other reports regarding sampling, testing, or recommendations of data analysis. Adjust or repair testing, electrical, or mechanical equipment or devices. Plot information from aerial photographs, well logs, section descriptions, or other databases. Prepare notes, sketches, geological maps, or cross sections. Participate in the evaluation of possible mining locations. Assess the environmental impacts of development projects on subsurface materials.
19-4051| Nuclear Technicians|Follow policies and procedures for radiation workers to ensure personnel safety. Monitor instruments, gauges, and recording devices in control rooms during operation of equipment, under direction of nuclear experimenters. Modify, devise, and maintain equipment used in operations. Perform testing, maintenance, repair, or upgrading of accelerator systems. Warn maintenance workers of radiation hazards and direct workers to vacate hazardous areas. Submit computations to supervisors for review. Calculate equipment operating factors, such as radiation times, dosages, temperatures, gamma intensities, or pressures, using standard formulas and conversion tables.Brief workers on radiation levels in work areas. Calculate safe radiation exposure times for personnel using plant contamination readings and prescribed safe levels of radiation. Monitor personnel to determine the amounts and intensities of radiation exposure. Inform supervisors when individual exposures or area radiation levels approach maximum permissible limits. Provide initial response to abnormal events or to alarms from radiation monitoring equipment. Determine intensities and types of radiation in work areas, equipment, or materials, using radiation detectors or other instruments. Instruct personnel in radiation safety procedures and demonstrate use of protective clothing and equipment. Collect samples of air, water, gases, or solids to determine radioactivity levels of contamination. Analyze samples, such as air or water samples, for contaminants or other elements. Determine or recommend radioactive decontamination procedures, according to the size and nature of equipment and the degree of contamination. Set up equipment that automatically detects area radiation deviations and test detection equipment to ensure its accuracy. Prepare reports describing contamination tests, material or equipment decontaminated, or methods used in decontamination processes. Place radioactive waste, such as sweepings or broken sample bottles, into containers for shipping or disposal. Decontaminate objects by cleaning with soap or solvents or by abrading with wire brushes, buffing wheels, or sandblasting machines. Enter data into computers to record characteristics of nuclear events or to locate coordinates of particles. Calibrate and maintain chemical instrumentation sensing elements and sampling system equipment, using calibration instruments and hand tools. Immerse samples in chemical compounds to prepare them for testing. Confer with scientists directing projects to determine significant events to monitor during tests. Operate manipulators from outside cells to move specimens into or out of shielded containers, to remove specimens from cells, or to place specimens on benches or equipment work stations.
19-4061| Social Science Research Assistants|Prepare, manipulate, and manage extensive databases. Provide assistance with the preparation of project-related reports, manuscripts, and presentations. Obtain informed consent of research subjects or their guardians. Perform descriptive and multivariate statistical analyses of data, using computer software. Verify the accuracy and validity of data entered in databases, correcting any errors. Prepare tables, graphs, fact sheets, and written reports summarizing research results. Edit and submit protocols and other required research documentation. Develop and implement research quality control procedures. Conduct internet-based and library research. Present research findings to groups of people. Perform data entry and other clerical work as required for project completion. Design and create special programs for tasks such as statistical analysis and data entry and cleaning. Code data in preparation for computer entry. Provide assistance in the design of survey instruments such as questionnaires. Screen potential subjects to determine their suitability as study participants. Administer standardized tests to research subjects, or interview them to collect research data. Recruit and schedule research participants. Track research participants, and perform any necessary follow-up tasks. Allocate and manage laboratory space and resources. Supervise the work of survey interviewers. Track laboratory supplies, and expenses such as participant reimbursement. Perform needs assessments or consult with clients to determine the types of research and information required. Collect specimens such as blood samples, as required by research projects.
19-4091| Environmental Science and Protection Technicians, Including Health|Collect samples of gases, soils, water, industrial wastewater, or asbestos products to conduct tests on pollutant levels or identify sources of pollution. Record test data and prepare reports, summaries, or charts that interpret test results. Develop or implement programs for monitoring of environmental pollution or radiation. Discuss test results and analyses with customers. Set up equipment or stations to monitor and collect pollutants from sites, such as smoke stacks, manufacturing plants, or mechanical equipment. Maintain files, such as hazardous waste databases, chemical usage data, personnel exposure information, or diagrams showing equipment locations. Develop testing procedures or direct activities of workers in laboratory. Prepare samples or photomicrographs for testing and analysis. Calibrate microscopes or test instruments. Examine and analyze material for presence and concentration of contaminants, such as asbestos, using variety of microscopes. Calculate amount of pollutant in samples or compute air pollution or gas flow in industrial processes, using chemical and mathematical formulas. Make recommendations to control or eliminate unsafe conditions at workplaces or public facilities. Weigh, analyze, or measure collected sample particles, such as lead, coal dust, or rock to determine concentration of pollutants. Provide information or technical or program assistance to government representatives, employers, or the general public on the issues of public health, environmental protection, or workplace safety. Conduct standardized tests to ensure materials or supplies used throughout power supply systems meet processing and safety specifications. Perform statistical analysis of environmental data. Respond to and investigate hazardous conditions or spills, or outbreaks of disease or food poisoning, collecting samples for analysis. Determine amounts and kinds of chemicals to use in destroying harmful organisms or removing impurities from purification systems. Inspect sanitary conditions at public facilities. Inspect workplaces to ensure the absence of health and safety hazards, such as high noise levels, radiation, or potential lighting hazards. Distribute permits, closure plans, or cleanup plans. Initiate procedures to close down or fine establishments violating environmental or health regulations.
19-4092| Forensic Science Technicians|Keep records and prepare reports detailing findings, investigative methods, and laboratory techniques. Collect evidence from crime scenes, storing it in conditions that preserve its integrity. Testify in court about investigative or analytical methods or findings. Use photographic or video equipment to document evidence or crime scenes. Visit morgues, examine scenes of crimes, or contact other sources to obtain evidence or information to be used in investigations. Reconstruct crime scenes to determine relationships among pieces of evidence. Operate and maintain laboratory equipment and apparatus. Confer with ballistics, fingerprinting, handwriting, documents, electronics, medical, chemical, or metallurgical experts concerning evidence and its interpretation. Prepare solutions, reagents, or sample formulations needed for laboratory work. Train new technicians or other personnel on forensic science techniques. Use chemicals or other substances to examine latent fingerprint evidence and compare developed prints to those of known persons in databases. Interpret laboratory findings or test results to identify and classify substances, materials, or other evidence collected at crime scenes. Collect impressions of dust from surfaces to obtain and identify fingerprints. Review forensic analysts' reports for technical merit. Examine and analyze blood stain patterns at crime scenes. Examine physical evidence, such as hair, fiber, wood, or soil residues to obtain information about its source and composition. Examine firearms to determine mechanical condition and legal status, performing restoration work on damaged firearms to obtain information such as serial numbers. Compare objects, such as tools, with impression marks to determine whether a specific object is responsible for a specific mark. Analyze gunshot residue and bullet paths to determine how shootings occurred. Identify and quantify drugs or poisons found in biological fluids or tissues, in foods, or at crime scenes. Determine types of bullets and specific weapons used in shootings.
19-4093| Forest and Conservation Technicians|Keep records of the amount and condition of logs taken to mills. Manage forest protection activities, including fire control, fire crew training, and coordination of fire detection and public education programs. Train and lead forest and conservation workers in seasonal activities, such as planting tree seedlings, putting out forest fires, and maintaining recreational facilities. Survey, measure, and map access roads and forest areas such as burns, cut-over areas, experimental plots, and timber sales sections. Select and mark trees for thinning or logging, drawing detailed plans that include access roads. Provide information about, and enforce, regulations such as those concerning environmental protection, resource utilization, fire safety and accident prevention. Supervise forest nursery operations, timber harvesting, land use activities such as livestock grazing, and disease or insect control programs. Monitor activities of logging companies and contractors. Patrol park or forest areas to protect resources and prevent damage. Thin and space trees and control weeds and undergrowth, using manual tools and chemicals, or supervise workers performing these tasks. Develop and maintain computer databases. Plan and supervise construction of access routes and forest roads. Provide forestry education and general information, advice, and recommendations to woodlot owners, community organizations, and the general public. Perform reforestation or forest renewal, including nursery and silviculture operations, site preparation, seeding and tree planting programs, cone collection, and tree improvement. Issue fire permits, timber permits, and other forest use licenses. Provide technical support to forestry research programs in areas such as tree improvement, seed orchard operations, insect and disease surveys, or experimental forestry and forest engineering research. Measure distances, clean sightlines, and record data to help survey crews. Inspect trees and collect samples of plants, seeds, foliage, bark and roots to locate insect and disease damage.
21-1011| Substance Abuse and Behavioral Disorder Counselors|Complete and maintain accurate records or reports regarding the patients' histories and progress, services provided, or other required information. Counsel clients or patients, individually or in group sessions, to assist in overcoming dependencies, adjusting to life, or making changes. Interview clients, review records, and confer with other professionals to evaluate individuals' mental and physical condition and to determine their suitability for participation in a specific program. Develop client treatment plans based on research, clinical experience, and client histories. Review and evaluate clients' progress in relation to measurable goals described in treatment and care plans. Intervene as an advocate for clients or patients to resolve emergency problems in crisis situations. Coordinate counseling efforts with mental health professionals or other health professionals, such as doctors, nurses, or social workers. Modify treatment plans to comply with changes in client status. Attend training sessions to increase knowledge and skills. Participate in case conferences or staff meetings. Provide clients or family members with information about addiction issues and about available services or programs, making appropriate referrals when necessary. Conduct chemical dependency program orientation sessions. Coordinate activities with courts, probation officers, community services, or other post-treatment agencies. Train or supervise student interns or new staff members. Act as liaisons between clients and medical staff. Plan or implement follow-up or aftercare programs for clients to be discharged from treatment programs. Assess individuals' degree of drug dependency by collecting and analyzing urine samples. Instruct others in program methods, procedures, or functions. Counsel family members to assist them in understanding, dealing with, and supporting clients or patients. Confer with family members or others close to clients to keep them informed of treatment planning and progress. Supervise or direct other workers providing services to clients or patients. Follow progress of discharged patients to determine effectiveness of treatments. Develop, implement, or evaluate public education, prevention, or health promotion programs, working in collaboration with organizations, institutions, or communities.
21-1012| Educational, Guidance, School, and Vocational Counselors|Counsel individuals to help them understand and overcome personal, social, or behavioral problems affecting their educational or vocational situations. Provide crisis intervention to students when difficult situations occur at schools. Confer with parents or guardians, teachers, administrators, and other professionals to discuss children's progress, resolve behavioral, academic, and other problems, and to determine priorities for students and their resource needs. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Prepare students for later educational experiences by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Evaluate students' or individuals' abilities, interests, and personality characteristics using tests, records, interviews, or professional sources. Identify cases of domestic abuse or other family problems and encourage students or parents to seek additional assistance from mental health professionals. Counsel students regarding educational issues, such as course and program selection, class scheduling and registration, school adjustment, truancy, study habits, and career planning. Provide special services such as alcohol and drug prevention programs and classes that teach students to handle conflicts without resorting to violence. Conduct follow-up interviews with counselees to determine if their needs have been met. Instruct individuals in career development techniques such as job search and application strategies, resume writing, and interview skills. Collaborate with teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of school programs and in the preparation of master schedules for curriculum offerings. Assess needs for assistance such as rehabilitation, financial aid, or additional vocational training, and refer clients to the appropriate services. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Observe students during classroom and play activities to evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Teach classes and present self-help or information sessions on subjects related to education and career planning. Plan and conduct orientation programs and group conferences to promote the adjustment of individuals to new life experiences such as starting college. Attend meetings, educational conferences, and training workshops and serve on committees. Plan and promote career and employment-related programs and events, such as career planning presentations, work-experience programs, job fairs, and career workshops. Establish and enforce administration policies and rules governing student behavior. Address community groups, faculty, and staff members to explain available counseling services. Review transcripts to ensure that students meet graduation or college entrance requirements and write letters of recommendation. Provide students with information on such topics as college degree programs and admission requirements, financial aid opportunities, trade and technical schools, and apprenticeship programs. Compile and study occupational, educational, and economic information to assist counselees in determining and carrying out vocational and educational objectives. Refer students to degree programs based on interests, aptitudes, or educational assessments. Interview clients to obtain information about employment history, educational background, and career goals, and to identify barriers to employment. Refer qualified counselees to employers or employment services for job placement. Establish contacts with employers to create internship and employment opportunities for students. Plan, direct, and participate in recruitment and enrollment activities. Supervise, train, and direct professional staff and interns. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities such as restrooms. Establish and supervise peer counseling and peer tutoring programs. Provide information for teachers and staff members involved in helping students or graduates identify and pursue employment opportunities.
21-1013| Marriage and Family Therapists|Ask questions that will help clients identify their feelings and behaviors. Counsel clients on concerns, such as unsatisfactory relationships, divorce and separation, child rearing, home management, and financial difficulties. Encourage individuals and family members to develop and use skills and strategies for confronting their problems in a constructive manner. Maintain case files that include activities, progress notes, evaluations, and recommendations. Develop and implement individualized treatment plans addressing family relationship problems, destructive patterns of behavior, and other personal issues. Collect information about clients, using techniques such as testing, interviewing, discussion, and observation. Confer with clients to develop plans for posttreatment activities. Confer with other counselors, doctors, and professionals to analyze individual cases and to coordinate counseling services. Determine whether clients should be counseled or referred to other specialists in such fields as medicine, psychiatry, and legal aid. Follow up on results of counseling programs and clients' adjustments to determine effectiveness of programs. Write evaluations of parents and children for use by courts deciding divorce and custody cases, testifying in court if necessary. Provide instructions to clients on how to obtain help with legal, financial, and other personal issues. Provide public education and consultation to other professionals or groups regarding counseling services, issues, and methods. Gather information from doctors, schools, social workers, juvenile counselors, law enforcement personnel, and others to make recommendations to courts for resolution of child custody or visitation disputes. Supervise other counselors, social service staff, and assistants. Provide family counseling and treatment services to inmates participating in substance abuse programs.
21-1014| Mental Health Counselors|Maintain confidentiality of records relating to clients' treatment. Encourage clients to express their feelings and discuss what is happening in their lives, helping them to develop insight into themselves or their relationships. Collect information about clients through interviews, observation, or tests. Assess patients for risk of suicide attempts. Fill out and maintain client-related paperwork, including federal- and state-mandated forms, client diagnostic records, and progress notes. Prepare and maintain all required treatment records and reports. Counsel clients or patients, individually or in group sessions, to assist in overcoming dependencies, adjusting to life, or making changes. Guide clients in the development of skills or strategies for dealing with their problems. Perform crisis interventions with clients. Develop and implement treatment plans based on clinical experience and knowledge. Evaluate clients' physical or mental condition, based on review of client information. Act as client advocates to coordinate required services or to resolve emergency problems in crisis situations. Modify treatment activities or approaches as needed to comply with changes in clients' status. Evaluate the effectiveness of counseling programs on clients' progress in resolving identified problems and moving towards defined objectives. Meet with families, probation officers, police, or other interested parties to exchange necessary information during the treatment process. Discuss with individual patients their plans for life after leaving therapy. Collaborate with other staff members to perform clinical assessments or develop treatment plans. Counsel family members to assist them in understanding, dealing with, or supporting clients or patients. Monitor clients' use of medications. Plan, organize, or lead structured programs of counseling, work, study, recreation, or social activities for clients. Learn about new developments in counseling by reading professional literature, attending courses and seminars, or establishing and maintaining contact with other social service agencies. Refer patients, clients, or family members to community resources or to specialists as necessary. Gather information about community mental health needs or resources that could be used in conjunction with therapy. Supervise other counselors, social service staff, assistants, or graduate students. Plan or conduct programs to prevent substance abuse or improve community health or counseling services. Coordinate or direct employee workshops, courses, or training about mental health issues.
21-1015| Rehabilitation Counselors|Prepare and maintain records and case files, including documentation such as clients' personal and eligibility information, services provided, narratives of client contacts, and relevant correspondence. Develop rehabilitation plans that fit clients' aptitudes, education levels, physical abilities, and career goals. Monitor and record clients' progress to ensure that goals and objectives are met. Confer with clients to discuss their options and goals so that rehabilitation programs and plans for accessing needed services can be developed. Maintain close contact with clients during job training and placements to resolve problems and evaluate placement adequacy. Confer with physicians, psychologists, occupational therapists, and other professionals to develop and implement client rehabilitation programs. Arrange for physical, mental, academic, vocational, and other evaluations to obtain information for assessing clients' needs and developing rehabilitation plans. Analyze information from interviews, educational and medical records, consultation with other professionals, and diagnostic evaluations to assess clients' abilities, needs, and eligibility for services. Develop and maintain relationships with community referral sources, such as schools and community groups. Locate barriers to client employment, such as inaccessible work sites, inflexible schedules, and transportation problems, and work with clients to develop strategies for overcoming these barriers. Develop diagnostic procedures to determine clients' needs. Collaborate with clients' families to implement rehabilitation plans such as behavioral, residential, social, and employment goals. Participate in job development and placement programs, contacting prospective employers, placing clients in jobs, and evaluating the success of placements. Arrange for on-site job coaching or assistive devices, such as specially equipped wheelchairs, to help clients adapt to work or school environments. Manage budgets and direct case service allocations, authorizing expenditures and payments. Collaborate with community agencies to establish facilities and programs for persons with disabilities.
21-1021| Child, Family, and School Social Workers|Counsel individuals, groups, families, or communities regarding issues including mental health, poverty, unemployment, substance abuse, physical abuse, rehabilitation, social adjustment, child care, or medical care. Interview clients individually, in families, or in groups, assessing their situations, capabilities, and problems to determine what services are required to meet their needs. Serve as liaisons between students, homes, schools, family services, child guidance clinics, courts, protective services, doctors, and other contacts to help children who face problems, such as disabilities, abuse, or poverty. Maintain case history records and prepare reports. Counsel parents with child rearing problems, interviewing the child and family to determine whether further action is required. Refer clients to community resources for services, such as job placement, debt counseling, legal aid, housing, medical treatment, or financial assistance, and provide concrete information, such as where to go and how to apply. Consult with parents, teachers, and other school personnel to determine causes of problems, such as truancy and misbehavior, and to implement solutions. Counsel students whose behavior, school progress, or mental or physical impairment indicate a need for assistance, diagnosing students' problems and arranging for needed services. Address legal issues, such as child abuse and discipline, assisting with hearings and providing testimony to inform custody arrangements. Develop and review service plans in consultation with clients and perform follow-ups assessing the quantity and quality of services provided. Provide, find, or arrange for support services, such as child care, homemaker service, prenatal care, substance abuse treatment, job training, counseling, or parenting classes to prevent more serious problems from developing. Arrange for medical, psychiatric, and other tests that may disclose causes of difficulties and indicate remedial measures. Collect supplementary information needed to assist client, such as employment records, medical records, or school reports. Administer welfare programs. Recommend temporary foster care and advise foster or adoptive parents. Supervise other social workers. Lead group counseling sessions that provide support in such areas as grief, stress, or chemical dependency. Place children in foster or adoptive homes, institutions, or medical treatment centers. Evaluate personal characteristics and home conditions of foster home or adoption applicants. Determine clients' eligibility for financial assistance. Serve on policy-making committees, assist in community development, and assist client groups by lobbying for solutions to problems. Work in child and adolescent residential institutions. Conduct social research.
21-1022| Healthcare Social Workers|Collaborate with other professionals to evaluate patients' medical or physical condition and to assess client needs. Advocate for clients or patients to resolve crises. Refer patient, client, or family to community resources to assist in recovery from mental or physical illness and to provide access to services such as financial assistance, legal aid, housing, job placement or education. Investigate child abuse or neglect cases and take authorized protective action when necessary. Counsel clients and patients in individual and group sessions to help them overcome dependencies, recover from illness, and adjust to life. Plan discharge from care facility to home or other care facility. Monitor, evaluate, and record client progress according to measurable goals described in treatment and care plan. Modify treatment plans to comply with changes in clients' status. Identify environmental impediments to client or patient progress through interviews and review of patient records. Organize support groups or counsel family members to assist them in understanding, dealing with, and supporting the client or patient. Utilize consultation data and social work experience to plan and coordinate client or patient care and rehabilitation, following through to ensure service efficacy. Plan and conduct programs to combat social problems, prevent substance abuse, or improve community health and counseling services. Supervise and direct other workers providing services to clients or patients. Oversee Medicaid- and Medicare-related paperwork and recordkeeping in hospitals. Develop or advise on social policy and assist in community development. Conduct social research to advance knowledge in the social work field.
21-1023| Mental Health and Substance Abuse Social Workers|Counsel clients in individual or group sessions to assist them in dealing with substance abuse, mental or physical illness, poverty, unemployment, or physical abuse. Monitor, evaluate, and record client progress with respect to treatment goals. Interview clients, review records, conduct assessments, or confer with other professionals to evaluate the mental or physical condition of clients or patients. Collaborate with counselors, physicians, or nurses to plan or coordinate treatment, drawing on social work experience and patient needs. Counsel or aid family members to assist them in understanding, dealing with, or supporting the client or patient. Refer patient, client, or family to community resources for housing or treatment to assist in recovery from mental or physical illness, following through to ensure service efficacy. Modify treatment plans according to changes in client status. Educate clients or community members about mental or physical illness, abuse, medication, or available community resources. Assist clients in adhering to treatment plans, such as setting up appointments, arranging for transportation to appointments, or providing support. Increase social work knowledge by reviewing current literature, conducting social research, or attending seminars, training workshops, or classes. Plan or conduct programs to prevent substance abuse, combat social problems, or improve health or counseling services in community. Supervise or direct other workers who provide services to clients or patients.
21-1091| Health Educators|Develop and present health education and promotion programs, such as training workshops, conferences, and school or community presentations. Develop and maintain cooperative working relationships with agencies and organizations interested in public health care. Develop educational materials and programs for community agencies, local government, and state government. Prepare and distribute health education materials, such as reports, bulletins, and visual aids, to address smoking, vaccines, and other public health concerns. Supervise professional and technical staff in implementing health programs, objectives, and goals. Document activities and record information, such as the numbers of applications completed, presentations conducted, and persons assisted. Collaborate with health specialists and civic groups to determine community health needs and the availability of services and to develop goals for meeting needs. Provide guidance to agencies and organizations on assessment of health education needs and on development and delivery of health education programs. Maintain databases, mailing lists, telephone networks, and other information to facilitate the functioning of health education programs. Design and conduct evaluations and diagnostic studies to assess the quality and performance of health education programs. Develop operational plans and policies necessary to achieve health education objectives and services. Provide program information to the public by preparing and presenting press releases, conducting media campaigns, or maintaining program-related web sites. Design and administer training programs for new employees and continuing education for existing employees. Develop, conduct, or coordinate health needs assessments and other public health surveys. Develop, prepare, and coordinate grant applications and grant-related activities to obtain funding for health education programs and related work. Develop and maintain health education libraries to provide resources for staff and community agencies.
21-1092| Probation Officers and Correctional Treatment Specialists|Interview probationers and parolees regularly to evaluate their progress in accomplishing goals and maintaining the terms specified in their probation contracts and rehabilitation plans. Recommend remedial action or initiate court action in response to noncompliance with terms of probation or parole. Administer drug and alcohol tests, including random drug screens of offenders, to verify compliance with substance abuse treatment programs. Prepare and maintain case folder for each assigned inmate or offender. Discuss with offenders how such issues as drug and alcohol abuse and anger management problems might have played roles in their criminal behavior. Conduct prehearing and presentencing investigations and testify in court regarding offenders' backgrounds and recommended sentences and sentencing conditions. Inform offenders or inmates of requirements of conditional release, such as office visits, restitution payments, or educational and employment stipulations. Write reports describing offenders' progress. Arrange for medical, mental health, or substance abuse treatment services according to individual needs or court orders. Supervise people on community-based sentences, such as electronically monitored home detention, and provide field supervision of probationers by conducting curfew checks or visits to home, work, or school. Develop liaisons and networks with other parole officers, community agencies, correctional institutions, psychiatric facilities, and aftercare agencies to plan for helping offenders with life adjustments. Arrange for postrelease services, such as employment, housing, counseling, education, and social activities. Gather information about offenders' backgrounds by talking to offenders, their families and friends, and other people who have relevant information. Develop rehabilitation programs for assigned offenders or inmates, establishing rules of conduct, goals, and objectives. Develop and prepare packets containing information about social service agencies, assistance organizations, and programs that might be useful for inmates or offenders. Provide offenders or inmates with assistance in matters concerning detainers, sentences in other jurisdictions, writs, and applications for social assistance. Investigate alleged parole violations, using interviews, surveillance, and search and seizure. Recommend appropriate penitentiary for initial placement of an offender. Assess the suitability of penitentiary inmates for release under parole and statutory release programs and submit recommendations to parole boards. Participate in decisions about whether cases should go before courts and which court should hear them. Identify and approve work placements for offenders with community service sentences.
21-1093| Social and Human Service Assistants|Keep records or prepare reports for owner or management concerning visits with clients. Provide information or refer individuals to public or private agencies or community services for assistance. Visit individuals in homes or attend group meetings to provide information on agency services, requirements, or procedures. Interview individuals or family members to compile information on social, educational, criminal, institutional, or drug history. Submit reports and review reports or problems with superior. Advise clients regarding food stamps, child care, food, money management, sanitation, or housekeeping. Consult with supervisor concerning programs for individual families. Oversee day-to-day group activities of residents in institution. Assist in locating housing for displaced individuals. Transport and accompany clients to shopping areas or to appointments, using automobile. Demonstrate use and care of equipment for tenant use. Explain rules established by owner or management, such as sanitation or maintenance requirements or parking regulations. Assist clients with preparation of forms, such as tax or rent forms. Observe and discuss meal preparation and suggest alternate methods of food preparation.
21-1094| Community Health Workers|Maintain updated client records with plans, notes, appropriate forms, or related information. Advise clients or community groups on issues related to improving general health, such as diet or exercise. Identify or contact members of high-risk or otherwise targeted groups, such as members of minority populations, low-income populations, or pregnant women. Contact clients in person, by phone, or in writing to ensure they have completed required or recommended actions. Distribute flyers, brochures, or other informational or educational documents to inform members of a targeted community. Refer community members to needed health services. Attend community meetings or health fairs to understand community issues or build relationships with community members. Perform basic diagnostic procedures, such as blood pressure screening, breast cancer screening, or communicable disease screening. Advise clients or community groups on issues related to diagnostic screenings, such as breast cancer screening, pap smears, glaucoma tests, or diabetes screenings. Advise clients or community groups on issues related to risk or prevention of conditions such as lead poisoning, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), prenatal substance abuse, or domestic violence. Administer immunizations or other basic preventive treatments. Identify the particular health care needs of individuals in a community or target area. Advise clients or community groups on issues related to self-care, such as diabetes management. Conduct home visits for pregnant women, newborn infants, or other high-risk individuals to monitor their progress or assess their needs. Transport or accompany clients to scheduled health appointments or referral sites. Advocate for individual or community health needs with government agencies or health service providers. Teach appropriate parenting behaviors to individuals or families. Report incidences of child or elder abuse, neglect, or threats of harm to authorities, as required. Teach classes or otherwise disseminate medical or dental health information to school groups, community groups, or targeted families or individuals, in a manner consistent with cultural norms. Advise clients or community groups on issues related to sanitation or hygiene, such as flossing or hand washing. Collect information from individuals to compile vital statistics about the general health of community members. Assist families to apply for social services, including Medicaid or Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Advise clients or community groups on issues related to social or intellectual development, such as education, childcare, or problem solving. Provide basic health services, such as first aid. Interpret, translate, or provide cultural mediation related to health services or information for community members. Monitor nutrition of children, elderly, or other high-risk groups. Advise clients or community groups to ensure parental understanding of the importance of childhood immunizations and how to access immunization services. Develop plans or formal contracts for individuals, families, or community groups to improve overall health. Provide feedback to health service providers regarding improving service accessibility or acceptability.
21-2011| Clergy|Pray and promote spirituality. Read from sacred texts such as the Bible, Torah, or Koran. Prepare and deliver sermons or other talks. Organize and lead regular religious services. Plan or lead religious education programs. Instruct people who seek conversion to a particular faith. Counsel individuals or groups concerning their spiritual, emotional, or personal needs. Administer religious rites or ordinances. Devise ways in which congregational membership can be expanded. Visit people in homes, hospitals, or prisons to provide them with comfort and support. Study and interpret religious laws, doctrines, or traditions. Conduct special ceremonies, such as weddings, funerals, or confirmations. Train leaders of church, community, or youth groups. Respond to requests for assistance during emergencies or crises. Share information about religious issues by writing articles, giving speeches, or teaching. Prepare people for participation in religious ceremonies. Collaborate with committees or individuals to address financial or administrative issues pertaining to congregations. Refer people to community support services, psychologists, or doctors. Participate in fundraising activities to support congregational activities or facilities. Perform administrative duties, such as overseeing building management, ordering supplies, contracting for services or repairs, or supervising the work of staff members or volunteers. Organize or engage in interfaith, community, civic, educational, or recreational activities sponsored by or related to religious programs.
21-2021| Directors, Religious Activities and Education|Identify and recruit potential volunteer workers. Develop or direct study courses or religious education programs within congregations. Publicize programs through sources such as newsletters, bulletins, or mailings. Train and supervise religious education instructional staff. Select appropriate curricula or class structures for educational programs. Collaborate with other ministry members to establish goals and objectives for religious education programs or to develop ways to encourage program participation. Implement program plans by ordering needed materials, scheduling speakers, reserving space, or handling other administrative details. Counsel individuals regarding interpersonal, health, financial, or religious problems. Confer with clergy members, congregational officials, or congregational organizations to encourage support of or participation in religious education activities. Schedule special events such as camps, conferences, meetings, seminars, or retreats. Analyze member participation or changes in congregational emphasis to determine needs for religious education. Attend workshops, seminars, or conferences to obtain program ideas, information, or resources. Locate and distribute resources, such as periodicals or curricula, to enhance the effectiveness of educational programs. Analyze revenue and program cost data to determine budget priorities. Plan or conduct conferences dealing with the interpretation of religious ideas or convictions. Plan fundraising activities for the church. Visit congregational members' homes or arrange for pastoral visits to provide information or resources regarding religious education programs. Interpret religious education activities to the public through speaking, leading discussions, or writing articles for local or national publications.
23-1011| Lawyers|Represent clients in court or before government agencies. Present evidence to defend clients or prosecute defendants in criminal or civil litigation. Select jurors, argue motions, meet with judges, and question witnesses during the course of a trial. Study Constitution, statutes, decisions, regulations, and ordinances of quasi-judicial bodies to determine ramifications for cases. Interpret laws, rulings and regulations for individuals and businesses. Present and summarize cases to judges and juries. Prepare legal briefs and opinions, and file appeals in state and federal courts of appeal. Analyze the probable outcomes of cases, using knowledge of legal precedents. Examine legal data to determine advisability of defending or prosecuting lawsuit. Evaluate findings and develop strategies and arguments in preparation for presentation of cases. Advise clients concerning business transactions, claim liability, advisability of prosecuting or defending lawsuits, or legal rights and obligations. Gather evidence to formulate defense or to initiate legal actions, by such means as interviewing clients and witnesses to ascertain the facts of a case. Negotiate settlements of civil disputes. Prepare and draft legal documents, such as wills, deeds, patent applications, mortgages, leases, and contracts. Confer with colleagues with specialties in appropriate areas of legal issue to establish and verify bases for legal proceedings. Supervise legal assistants. Perform administrative and management functions related to the practice of law. Probate wills and represent and advise executors and administrators of estates. Search for and examine public and other legal records to write opinions or establish ownership. Act as agent, trustee, guardian, or executor for businesses or individuals. Help develop federal and state programs, draft and interpret laws and legislation, and establish enforcement procedures. Work in environmental law, representing public interest groups, waste disposal companies, or construction firms in their dealings with state and federal agencies.
23-1012| Judicial Law Clerks|Research laws, court decisions, documents, opinions, briefs, or other information related to cases before the court. Prepare briefs, legal memoranda, or statements of issues involved in cases, including appropriate suggestions or recommendations. Confer with judges concerning legal questions, construction of documents, or granting of orders. Draft or proofread judicial opinions, decisions, or citations. Review complaints, petitions, motions, or pleadings that have been filed to determine issues involved or basis for relief. Keep abreast of changes in the law and inform judges when cases are affected by such changes. Attend court sessions to hear oral arguments or record necessary case information. Verify that all files, complaints, or other papers are available and in the proper order. Review dockets of pending litigation to ensure adequate progress. Respond to questions from judicial officers or court staff on general legal issues. Enter information into computerized court calendar, filing, or case management systems. Communicate with counsel regarding case management or procedural requirements. Participate in conferences or discussions between trial attorneys and judges. Coordinate judges' meeting and appointment schedules.
23-1021| Administrative Law Judges, Adjudicators, and Hearing Officers|Prepare written opinions and decisions. Monitor and direct the activities of trials and hearings to ensure that they are conducted fairly and that courts administer justice while safeguarding the legal rights of all involved parties. Determine existence and amount of liability according to current laws, administrative and judicial precedents, and available evidence. Research and analyze laws, regulations, policies, and precedent decisions to prepare for hearings and to determine conclusions. Conduct hearings to review and decide claims regarding issues such as social program eligibility, environmental protection, and enforcement of health and safety regulations. Review and evaluate data on documents, such as claim applications, birth or death certificates, and physician or employer records. Recommend the acceptance or rejection of claims or compromise settlements according to laws, regulations, policies, and precedent decisions. Rule on exceptions, motions, and admissibility of evidence. Confer with individuals or organizations involved in cases to obtain relevant information. Issue subpoenas and administer oaths in preparation for formal hearings. Explain to claimants how they can appeal rulings that go against them. Authorize payment of valid claims and determine method of payment. Conduct studies of appeals procedures in field agencies to ensure adherence to legal requirements and to facilitate determination of cases.
23-1022| Arbitrators, Mediators, and Conciliators|Use mediation techniques to facilitate communication between disputants, to further parties' understanding of different perspectives, and to guide parties toward mutual agreement. Confer with disputants to clarify issues, identify underlying concerns, and develop an understanding of their respective needs and interests. Prepare settlement agreements for disputants to sign. Set up appointments for parties to meet for mediation. Interview claimants, agents, or witnesses to obtain information about disputed issues. Apply relevant laws, regulations, policies, or precedents to reach conclusions. Conduct initial meetings with disputants to outline the arbitration process, settle procedural matters such as fees, or determine details such as witness numbers or time requirements. Evaluate information from documents such as claim applications, birth or death certificates, or physician or employer records. Authorize payment of valid claims. Conduct hearings to obtain information or evidence relative to disposition of claims. Rule on exceptions, motions, or admissibility of evidence. Prepare written opinions or decisions regarding cases. Determine extent of liability according to evidence, laws, or administrative or judicial precedents. Conduct studies of appeals procedures to ensure adherence to legal requirements or to facilitate disposition of cases. Issue subpoenas or administer oaths to prepare for formal hearings.
23-1023| Judges, Magistrate Judges, and Magistrates|Read documents on pleadings and motions to ascertain facts and issues. Rule on admissibility of evidence and methods of conducting testimony. Instruct juries on applicable laws, direct juries to deduce the facts from the evidence presented, and hear their verdicts. Award compensation for damages to litigants in civil cases in relation to findings by juries or by the court. Monitor proceedings to ensure that all applicable rules and procedures are followed. Preside over hearings and listen to allegations made by plaintiffs to determine whether the evidence supports the charges. Research legal issues and write opinions on the issues. Write decisions on cases. Advise attorneys, juries, litigants, and court personnel regarding conduct, issues, and proceedings. Interpret and enforce rules of procedure or establish new rules in situations where there are no procedures already established by law. Settle disputes between opposing attorneys. Impose restrictions upon parties in civil cases until trials can be held. Provide information regarding the judicial system or other legal issues through the media and public speeches. Rule on custody and access disputes, and enforce court orders regarding custody and support of children. Sentence defendants in criminal cases, on conviction by jury, according to applicable government statutes. Grant divorces and divide assets between spouses. Participate in judicial tribunals to help resolve disputes. Conduct preliminary hearings to decide issues such as whether there is reasonable and probable cause to hold defendants in felony cases. Supervise other judges, court officers, and the court's administrative staff.
23-2011| Paralegals and Legal Assistants|Prepare affidavits or other documents, such as legal correspondence, and organize and maintain documents in paper or electronic filing system. Prepare for trial by performing tasks such as organizing exhibits. Prepare legal documents, including briefs, pleadings, appeals, wills, contracts, and real estate closing statements. Meet with clients and other professionals to discuss details of case. File pleadings with court clerk. Gather and analyze research data, such as statutes, decisions, and legal articles, codes, and documents. Call upon witnesses to testify at hearing. Investigate facts and law of cases and search pertinent sources, such as public records, to determine causes of action and to prepare cases. Direct and coordinate law office activity, including delivery of subpoenas. Keep and monitor legal volumes to ensure that law library is up-to-date. Appraise and inventory real and personal property for estate planning. Arbitrate disputes between parties and assist in the real estate closing process, such as by reviewing title searches.
23-2091| Court Reporters|Record verbatim proceedings of courts, legislative assemblies, committee meetings, and other proceedings, using computerized recording equipment, electronic stenograph machines, or stenomasks. Take notes in shorthand or use a stenotype or shorthand machine that prints letters on a paper tape. Record symbols on computer storage media and use computer aided transcription to translate and display them as text. Provide transcripts of proceedings upon request of judges, lawyers, or the public. Transcribe recorded proceedings in accordance with established formats. File a legible transcript of records of a court case with the court clerk's office. Ask speakers to clarify inaudible statements. File and store shorthand notes of court session. Record depositions and other proceedings for attorneys. Respond to requests during court sessions to read portions of the proceedings already recorded. Verify accuracy of transcripts by checking copies against original records of proceedings and accuracy of rulings by checking with judges.
23-2093| Title Examiners, Abstractors, and Searchers|Prepare lists of all legal instruments applying to a specific piece of land and the buildings on it. Examine documentation such as mortgages, liens, judgments, easements, plat books, maps, contracts, and agreements to verify factors such as properties' legal descriptions, ownership, or restrictions. Read search requests to ascertain types of title evidence required and to obtain descriptions of properties and names of involved parties. Copy or summarize recorded documents, such as mortgages, trust deeds, and contracts, that affect property titles. Examine individual titles to determine if restrictions, such as delinquent taxes, will affect titles and limit property use. Prepare reports describing any title encumbrances encountered during searching activities, and outlining actions needed to clear titles. Verify accuracy and completeness of land-related documents accepted for registration, preparing rejection notices when documents are not acceptable. Confer with realtors, lending institution personnel, buyers, sellers, contractors, surveyors, and courthouse personnel to exchange title-related information or to resolve problems. Enter into record-keeping systems appropriate data needed to create new title records or update existing ones. Direct activities of workers who search records and examine titles, assigning, scheduling, and evaluating work, and providing technical guidance as necessary. Obtain maps or drawings delineating properties from company title plants, county surveyors, or assessors' offices. Prepare and issue title commitments and title insurance policies based on information compiled from title searches. Summarize pertinent legal or insurance details, or sections of statutes or case law from reference books so that they can be used in examinations, or as proofs or ready reference. Retrieve and examine real estate closing files for accuracy and to ensure that information included is recorded and executed according to regulations. Prepare real estate closing statements, using knowledge and expertise in real estate procedures. Determine whether land-related documents can be registered under the relevant legislation such as the Land Titles Act. Assess fees related to registration of property-related documents.
25-1011| Business Teachers, Postsecondary|Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as financial accounting, principles of marketing, and operations management. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional organizations and conferences. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and career issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Collaborate with members of the business community to improve programs, to develop new programs, and to provide student access to learning opportunities such as internships. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Develop and maintain course websites. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Participate in campus and community events. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Act as advisers to student organizations. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1021| Computer Science Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as programming, data structures, and software design. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Compile, administer, and grade examinations or assign this work to others. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Supervise students' laboratory work. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Maintain computer equipment used in instruction. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Direct research of other teachers or of graduate students working for advanced academic degrees. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding.
25-1022| Mathematical Science Teachers, Postsecondary|Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as linear algebra, differential equations, and discrete mathematics. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Keep abreast of developments and technological advances in the mathematical field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in books, professional journals, or electronic media. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1031| Architecture Teachers, Postsecondary|Evaluate and grade students' work, including work performed in design studios. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as architectural design methods, aesthetics and design, and structures and materials. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities.
25-1032| Engineering Teachers, Postsecondary|Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as mechanics, hydraulics, and robotics. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, assignments, and papers. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Supervise students' laboratory work. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate class discussions. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1041| Agricultural Sciences Teachers, Postsecondary|Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as crop production, plant genetics, and soil chemistry. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, assignments, and papers. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Supervise laboratory sessions and field work and coordinate laboratory operations. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1042| Biological Science Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as molecular biology, marine biology, and botany. Prepare materials for laboratory activities and course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, assignments, and papers. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Supervise students' laboratory work. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Assist students who need extra help with their coursework outside of class. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Provide students course-related experiences, such as field trips, outside the classroom. Review papers for publication in journals. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Participate in campus and community events, such as giving presentations to the public.
25-1043| Forestry and Conservation Science Teachers, Postsecondary|Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in books, professional journals, or electronic media. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as forest resource policy, forest pathology, and mapping. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Supervise students' laboratory or field work. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Review papers for colleagues and scientific journals. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Provide information to the public by leading workshops and training programs and by developing educational materials. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1051| Atmospheric, Earth, Marine, and Space Sciences Teachers, Postsecondary|Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as structural geology, micrometeorology, and atmospheric thermodynamics. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Supervise laboratory work and field work. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Purchase and maintain equipment to support research projects. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Review papers or serve on editorial boards for scientific journals, and review grant proposals for federal agencies. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1052| Chemistry Teachers, Postsecondary|Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory performance, assignments, and papers. Supervise students' laboratory work. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as organic chemistry, analytical chemistry, and chemical separation. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Establish, teach, and monitor students' compliance with safety rules for handling chemicals, equipment, and other hazardous materials. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Select, order, and maintain materials and supplies for teaching and research, such as textbooks, chemicals, and laboratory equipment. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on committees or in professional societies. Act as advisers to student organizations. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Perform administrative duties such as serving as a department head.
25-1053| Environmental Science Teachers, Postsecondary|Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Supervise students' laboratory and field work. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, assignments, and papers. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as hazardous waste management, industrial safety, and environmental toxicology. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in campus and community events. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1054| Physics Teachers, Postsecondary|Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as quantum mechanics, particle physics, and optics. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, assignments, and papers. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Act as advisers to student organizations. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Supervise students' laboratory work. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Maintain and repair laboratory equipment.
25-1061| Anthropology and Archeology Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as research methods, urban anthropology, and language and culture. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and present findings in professional journals, books, electronic media, or at professional conferences. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, and course materials and methods of instruction. Supervise students' laboratory or field work. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula, career issues, and laboratory and field research. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding and review others' grant proposals. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Review manuscripts for publication in books and professional journals. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Act as advisers to student organizations. Participate in campus and community events. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1062| Area, Ethnic, and Cultural Studies Teachers, Postsecondary|Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as race and ethnic relations, gender studies, and cross-cultural perspectives. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula, and on career issues. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in campus and community events, such as giving public lectures about research. Incorporate experiential or site visit components into courses. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Act as advisers to student organizations. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1063| Economics Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as econometrics, price theory, and macroeconomics. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in campus and community events. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1064| Geography Teachers, Postsecondary|Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as urbanization, environmental systems, and cultural geography. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Supervise students' laboratory and field work. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Maintain geographic information systems laboratories, performing duties such as updating software. Perform spatial analysis and modeling using geographic information system techniques.
25-1065| Political Science Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as classical political thought, international relations, and democracy and citizenship. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in campus and community events.
25-1066| Psychology Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as abnormal psychology, cognitive processes, and work motivation. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, assignments, and papers. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Develop and use multimedia course materials and other current technology, such as online courses. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Supervise students' laboratory work. Provide clinical services to clients, such as assessing psychological problems and conducting psychotherapy. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Supervise the clinical work of practicum students. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1067| Sociology Teachers, Postsecondary|Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as race and ethnic relations, measurement and data collection, and workplace social relations. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Supervise students' laboratory and field work. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1071| Health Specialties Teachers, Postsecondary|Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Supervise laboratory sessions. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as public health, stress management, and worksite health promotion. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Act as advisers to student organizations. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1072| Nursing Instructors and Teachers, Postsecondary|Supervise students' laboratory and clinical work. Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory and clinic work, assignments, and papers. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as pharmacology, mental health nursing, and community health care practices. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Demonstrate patient care in clinical units of hospitals. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Assess clinical education needs and patient and client teaching needs using a variety of methods. Mentor junior and adjunct faculty members. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Maintain a clinical practice. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Coordinate training programs with area universities, clinics, hospitals, health agencies, or vocational schools. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in campus and community events. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Act as advisers to student organizations. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding.
25-1081| Education Teachers, Postsecondary|Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Supervise students' fieldwork, internship, and research work. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as children's literature, learning and development, and reading instruction. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Advise and instruct teachers employed in school systems by providing activities such as in-service seminars. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Serve as a liaison between the university and other governmental and educational agencies. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1082| Library Science Teachers, Postsecondary|Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and present findings in professional journals, books, electronic media, or at professional conferences. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, giving presentations at conferences, and serving on committees in professional associations. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Develop and teach online courses. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as collection development, archival methods, and indexing and abstracting. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Participate in campus and community events. Edit manuscripts for professional journals. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1111|Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Teachers, Postsecondary|Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as criminal law, defensive policing, and investigation techniques. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Act as advisers to student organizations. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Participate in campus and community events. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1112| Law Teachers, Postsecondary|Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as civil procedure, contracts, and torts. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, papers, and oral presentations. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Participate in campus and community events. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Assign cases for students to hear and try. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Act as advisers to student organizations.
25-1113| Social Work Teachers, Postsecondary|Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as family behavior, child and adolescent mental health, and social intervention evaluation. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Collaborate with colleagues and community agencies to address teaching and research issues. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and laboratory equipment. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Act as advisers to student organizations. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Participate in campus and community events. Supervise students' laboratory and field work. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1121| Art, Drama, and Music Teachers, Postsecondary|Explain and demonstrate artistic techniques. Evaluate and grade students' class work, performances, projects, assignments, and papers. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Prepare students for performances, exams, or assessments. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as acting techniques, fundamentals of music, and art history. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks and performance pieces. Display students' work in schools, galleries, and exhibitions. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Keep students informed of community events such as plays and concerts. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in campus and community events. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Organize performance groups and direct their rehearsals. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Act as advisers to student organizations. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding.
25-1122| Communications Teachers, Postsecondary|Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as public speaking, media criticism, and oral traditions. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Keep abreast of developments and technological advances in the communication field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in campus and community events. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Act as advisers to student organizations. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1123| English Language and Literature Teachers, Postsecondary|Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as poetry, novel structure, and translation and adaptation. Teach writing classes. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Assist students who need extra help with their coursework outside of class. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in cultural and literary activities, such as traveling abroad and attending performing arts events. Participate in campus and community events. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Write original literary pieces. Recruit, train, and supervise department personnel, such as faculty and student writing instructors. Provide assistance to students in college writing centers. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Conduct staff performance evaluations.
25-1124| Foreign Language and Literature Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as how to speak and write a foreign language and the cultural aspects of areas where a particular language is used. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Keep abreast of developments in their field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional organizations and activities. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Develop and maintain web pages for teaching-related purposes. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in scholarly journals, books, or electronic media. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Act as advisers to student organizations. Participate in campus and community events. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Organize and direct study abroad programs. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work.
25-1125| History Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as ancient history, postwar civilizations, and the history of third-world countries. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Review books and journal articles for potential publication. Participate in campus and community events. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Develop, maintain, and teach online courses. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head.
25-1126| Philosophy and Religion Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students and the community on topics such as ethics, logic, and contemporary religious thought. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Write articles and books. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in campus and community events. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Act as advisers to student organizations. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding.
25-1191| Graduate Teaching Assistants|Lead discussion sections, tutorials, or laboratory sections. Evaluate and grade examinations, assignments, or papers and record grades. Return assignments to students in accordance with established deadlines. Schedule and maintain regular office hours to meet with students. Inform students of the procedures for completing and submitting class work, such as lab reports. Prepare or proctor examinations. Notify instructors of errors or problems with assignments. Meet with supervisors to discuss students' grades or to complete required grade-related paperwork. Copy and distribute classroom materials. Demonstrate use of laboratory equipment and enforce laboratory rules. Teach undergraduate level courses. Complete laboratory projects prior to assigning them to students so that any needed modifications can be made. Develop teaching materials, such as syllabi, visual aids, answer keys, supplementary notes, or course Web sites. Provide assistance to faculty members or staff with laboratory or field research. Arrange for supervisors to conduct teaching observations; meet with supervisors to receive feedback about teaching performance. Attend lectures given by the instructor whom they are assisting. Order or obtain materials needed for classes.
25-1192| Home Economics Teachers, Postsecondary|Evaluate and grade students' class work, laboratory work, projects, assignments, and papers. Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as food science, nutrition, and child care. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in campus and community events. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department head. Act as advisers to student organizations. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Provide professional consulting services to government or industry.
25-1193| Recreation and Fitness Studies Teachers, Postsecondary|Prepare course materials such as syllabi, homework assignments, and handouts. Evaluate and grade students' class work, assignments, and papers. Maintain student attendance records, grades, and other required records. Keep abreast of developments in the field by reading current literature, talking with colleagues, and participating in professional conferences. Compile, administer, and grade examinations, or assign this work to others. Initiate, facilitate, and moderate classroom discussions. Plan, evaluate, and revise curricula, course content, course materials, and methods of instruction. Prepare and deliver lectures to undergraduate or graduate students on topics such as anatomy, therapeutic recreation, and conditioning theory. Maintain regularly scheduled office hours to advise and assist students. Select and obtain materials and supplies such as textbooks. Advise students on academic and vocational curricula and on career issues. Collaborate with colleagues to address teaching and research issues. Serve on academic or administrative committees that deal with institutional policies, departmental matters, and academic issues. Compile bibliographies of specialized materials for outside reading assignments. Participate in campus and community events. Supervise undergraduate or graduate teaching, internship, and research work. Conduct research in a particular field of knowledge and publish findings in professional journals, books, or electronic media. Participate in student recruitment, registration, and placement activities. Write grant proposals to procure external research funding. Perform administrative duties such as serving as department heads. Prepare students to act as sports coaches. Act as advisers to student organizations.
25-1194| Vocational Education Teachers, Postsecondary|Supervise and monitor students' use of tools and equipment. Observe and evaluate students' work to determine progress, provide feedback, and make suggestions for improvement. Determine training needs of students or workers. Administer oral, written, or performance tests to measure progress and to evaluate training effectiveness. Prepare reports and maintain records such as student grades, attendance rolls, and training activity details. Conduct on-the-job training classes or training sessions to teach and demonstrate principles, techniques, procedures, or methods of designated subjects. Integrate academic and vocational curricula so that students can obtain a variety of skills. Develop curricula and plan course content and methods of instruction. Develop teaching aids such as instructional software, multimedia visual aids, or study materials. Participate in conferences, seminars, and training sessions to keep abreast of developments in the field, and integrate relevant information into training programs. Present lectures and conduct discussions to increase students' knowledge and competence using visual aids, such as graphs, charts, videotapes, and slides. Supervise independent or group projects, field placements, laboratory work, or other training. Select and assemble books, materials, supplies, and equipment for training, courses, or projects. Prepare outlines of instructional programs and training schedules and establish course goals. Provide individualized instruction and tutorial or remedial instruction. Advise students on course selection, career decisions, and other academic and vocational concerns. Acquire, maintain, and repair laboratory equipment and tools.
25-2011| Preschool Teachers, Except Special Education|Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order. Organize and lead activities designed to promote physical, mental, and social development, such as games, arts and crafts, music, storytelling, and field trips. Teach basic skills, such as color, shape, number and letter recognition, personal hygiene, and social skills. Observe and evaluate children's performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Read books to entire classes or to small groups. Attend to children's basic needs by feeding them, dressing them, and changing their diapers. Provide a variety of materials and resources for children to explore, manipulate, and use, both in learning activities and in imaginative play. Assimilate arriving children to the school environment by greeting them, helping them remove outerwear, and selecting activities of interest to them. Serve meals and snacks in accordance with nutritional guidelines. Teach proper eating habits and personal hygiene. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Enforce all administration policies and rules governing students. Identify children showing signs of emotional, developmental, or health-related problems and discuss them with supervisors, parents or guardians, and child development specialists. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to children. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and needs, determine their priorities for their children, and suggest ways that they can promote learning and development. Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs and interests. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Arrange indoor and outdoor space to facilitate creative play, motor-skill activities, and safety. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Demonstrate activities to children. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Organize and label materials and display students' work in a manner appropriate for their ages and perceptual skills. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of preschool programs. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guests, or other experiential activities and guide students in learning from those activities. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees as required. Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms. Administer tests to help determine children's developmental levels, needs, and potential. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Perform administrative duties, such as hall and cafeteria monitoring and bus loading and unloading. Supervise, evaluate, and plan assignments for teacher assistants and volunteers.
25-2012| Kindergarten Teachers, Except Special Education|Instruct students individually and in groups, adapting teaching methods to meet students' varying needs and interests. Teach basic skills, such as color, shape, number and letter recognition, personal hygiene, and social skills. Observe and evaluate children's performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and policies and procedures to maintain order among students. Demonstrate activities to children. Provide a variety of materials and resources for children to explore, manipulate, and use, both in learning activities and in imaginative play. Read books to entire classes or to small groups. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to children. Prepare materials, classrooms, and other indoor and outdoor spaces to facilitate creative play, learning and motor-skill activities, and safety. Identify children showing signs of emotional, developmental, or health-related problems and discuss them with supervisors, parents or guardians, and child development specialists. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine their priorities for their children and their resource needs. Organize and lead activities designed to promote physical, mental, and social development, such as games, arts and crafts, music, and storytelling. Prepare children for later grades by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Confer with parents or guardians, other teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of kindergarten programs. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injuries and damage. Maintain accurate and complete student records and prepare reports on children and activities as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Assimilate arriving children to the school environment by greeting them, helping them remove outerwear, and selecting activities of interest to them. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Organize and label materials and display children's work in a manner appropriate for their sizes and perceptual skills. Supervise, evaluate, and plan assignments for teacher assistants and volunteers. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems or special academic interests. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Perform administrative duties, such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading. Involve parent volunteers and older students in children's activities to facilitate involvement in focused, complex play. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees as required. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guests, or other experiential activities and guide students in learning from those activities. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate children's progress. Administer standardized ability and achievement tests and interpret results to determine children's developmental levels and needs.
25-2021| Elementary School Teachers, Except Special Education|Instruct students individually and in groups, using various teaching methods such as lectures, discussions, and demonstrations. Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs and interests. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among the students for whom they are responsible. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine priorities for their children and their resource needs. Prepare students for later grades by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Read books to entire classes or small groups. Provide a variety of materials and resources for children to explore, manipulate, and use, both in learning activities and in imaginative play. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate students' progress. Enforce administration policies and rules governing students. Assign and grade class work and homework. Confer with parents or guardians, teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems, or special academic interests. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Organize and lead activities designed to promote physical, mental, and social development, such as games, arts and crafts, music, and storytelling. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injuries and damage. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Organize and label materials and display students' work. Supervise, evaluate, and plan assignments for teacher assistants and volunteers. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Administer standardized ability and achievement tests and interpret results to determine student strengths and areas of need. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of elementary school programs. Involve parent volunteers and older students in children's activities to facilitate involvement in focused, complex play. Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Sponsor extracurricular activities such as clubs, student organizations, and academic contests. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms. Perform administrative duties such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading.
25-2022| Middle School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education|Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs and interests. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among students. Confer with parents or guardians, other teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Maintain accurate, complete, and correct student records as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate students' progress. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Instruct through lectures, discussions, and demonstrations in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects, and communicate these objectives to students. Assist students who need extra help, such as by tutoring and preparing and implementing remedial programs. Assign lessons and correct homework. Enforce all administration policies and rules governing students. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Meet or correspond with parents or guardians to discuss children's progress and to determine priorities and resource needs. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injury and damage. Prepare students for later grades by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems, or special academic interests. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of middle school programs. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from such activities. Organize and supervise games and other recreational activities to promote physical, mental, and social development. Administer standardized ability and achievement tests and interpret results to determine student strengths and areas of need. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Perform administrative duties such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading. Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Organize and label materials and display students' work. Attend staff meetings and serve on staff committees, as required. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Coordinate and supervise extracurricular activities, such as clubs, student organizations, and academic contests. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms. Supervise, evaluate, and plan assignments for teacher assistants and volunteers.
25-2023| Career/Technical  Education Teachers, Middle School|Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injuries and damage. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among students. Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs and interests. Instruct students individually and in groups, using various teaching methods, such as lectures, discussions, and demonstrations. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Enforce all administration policies and rules governing students. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Confer with parents or guardians, other teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Assign and grade class work and homework. Select, store, order, issue, inventory, and maintain classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate students' progress. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Prepare students for later educational experiences by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities such as restrooms. Guide and counsel students with adjustments or academic problems, or special academic interests. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine priorities for their children and their resource needs. Perform administrative duties such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of middle school programs. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Sponsor extracurricular activities such as clubs, student organizations, and academic contests.
25-2031| Secondary School Teachers, Except Special and Career/Technical Education|Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among students. Instruct through lectures, discussions, and demonstrations in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies. Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs and interests. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Enforce all administration policies and rules governing students. Assign and grade class work and homework. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate students' progress. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems, or special academic interests. Prepare students for later grades by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Confer with parents or guardians, other teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine priorities for their children and their resource needs. Instruct and monitor students in the use of equipment and materials to prevent injuries and damage. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of secondary school programs. Sponsor extracurricular activities such as clubs, student organizations, and academic contests. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers, or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Administer standardized ability and achievement tests and interpret results to determine students' strengths and areas of need. Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Perform administrative duties such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities such as restrooms.
25-2032| Career/Technical Education Teachers, Secondary School|Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Prepare materials and classroom for class activities. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by law, district policy, and administrative regulations. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among students. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injury and damage. Instruct students individually and in groups, using various teaching methods, such as lectures, discussions, and demonstrations. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Instruct students in the knowledge and skills required in a specific occupation or occupational field, using a systematic plan of lectures, discussions, audio-visual presentations, and laboratory, shop and field studies. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate students' progress. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Assign and grade class work and homework. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Prepare students for later grades by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Confer with parents or guardians, other teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Enforce all administration policies and rules governing students. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine priorities for their children and their resource needs. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems, or special academic interests. Plan and supervise work-experience programs in businesses, industrial shops, and school laboratories. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Keep informed about trends in education and subject matter specialties. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities such as restrooms. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Select, order, store, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Place students in jobs or make referrals to job placement services. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Sponsor extracurricular activities such as clubs, student organizations, and academic contests. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of secondary school programs. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Perform administrative duties such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading.
25-2051| Special Education Teachers, Preschool|Arrange indoor or outdoor space to facilitate creative play, motor-skill activities, or safety. Attend to children's basic needs by feeding them, dressing them, or changing their diapers. Communicate nonverbally with children to provide them with comfort, encouragement, or positive reinforcement. Confer with parents, guardians, teachers, counselors, or administrators to resolve students' behavioral or academic problems. Develop individual educational plans (IEPs) designed to promote students' educational, physical, or social development. Develop or implement strategies to meet the needs of students with a variety of disabilities. Employ special educational strategies or techniques during instruction to improve the development of sensory- and perceptual-motor skills, language, cognition, or memory. Encourage students to explore learning opportunities or persevere with challenging tasks to prepare them for later grades. Establish and communicate clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects to students, parents, or guardians. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among students. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment or materials to prevent injuries and damage. Modify the general preschool curriculum for special-needs students. Monitor teachers or teacher assistants to ensure adherence to special education program requirements. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Organize and supervise games or other recreational activities to promote physical, mental, or social development. Plan and supervise experiential learning activities, such as class projects, field trips, or demonstrations. Prepare classrooms with a variety of materials or resources for children to explore, manipulate, or use in learning activities or imaginative play. Prepare objectives, outlines, or other materials for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements. Present information in audio-visual or interactive formats, using computers, television, audio-visual aids, or other equipment, materials, or technologies. Read books to entire classes or to small groups. Serve meals or snacks in accordance with nutritional guidelines. Teach basic skills, such as color, shape, number and letter recognition, personal hygiene, or social skills, to preschool students with special needs. Teach socially acceptable behavior, employing techniques such as behavior modification or positive reinforcement. Teach students personal development skills, such as goal setting, independence, or self-advocacy. Administer tests to help determine children's developmental levels, needs, or potential. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, or teacher training workshops to maintain or improve professional competence. Collaborate with other teachers or administrators to develop, evaluate, or revise preschool programs. Confer with parents, administrators, testing specialists, social workers, or other professionals to develop individual education plans (IEPs). Control the inventory or distribution of classroom equipment, materials, or supplies. Coordinate placement of students with special needs into mainstream classes. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, or administrative regulations. Meet with parents or guardians to discuss their children's progress, advise them on using community resources, or teach skills for dealing with students' impairments. Organize and display students' work in a manner appropriate for their perceptual skills. Prepare assignments for teacher assistants or volunteers. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Provide assistive devices, supportive technology, or assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms.
25-2052| Special Education Teachers, Kindergarten and Elementary School|Instruct special needs students in academic subjects, using a variety of techniques, such as phonetics, multisensory learning, or repetition to reinforce learning and meet students' varying needs. Develop or implement strategies to meet the needs of students with a variety of disabilities. Develop individual educational plans (IEPs) designed to promote students' educational, physical, or social development. Confer with parents, administrators, testing specialists, social workers, or other professionals to develop individual education plans (IEPs). Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws, district policies, or administrative regulations. Teach socially acceptable behavior, employing techniques such as behavior modification or positive reinforcement. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among students. Modify the general kindergarten or elementary education curriculum for special-needs students. Confer with parents, guardians, teachers, counselors, or administrators to resolve students' behavioral or academic problems. Employ special educational strategies or techniques during instruction to improve the development of sensory- and perceptual-motor skills, language, cognition, or memory. Monitor teachers or teacher assistants to ensure adherence to special education program requirements. Prepare classrooms with a variety of materials or resources for children to explore, manipulate, or use in learning activities or imaginative play. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Meet with parents or guardians to discuss their children's progress, advise them on using community resources, or teach skills for dealing with students' impairments. Prepare, administer, or grade tests or assignments to evaluate students' progress. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Establish and communicate clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects to students. Encourage students to explore learning opportunities or persevere with challenging tasks to prepare them for later grades. Provide assistive devices, supportive technology, or assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms. Teach students personal development skills, such as goal setting, independence, or self-advocacy. Coordinate placement of students with special needs into mainstream classes. Interpret the results of standardized tests to determine students' strengths and areas of need. Collaborate with other teachers or administrators to develop, evaluate, or revise kindergarten or elementary school programs. Confer with other staff members to plan or schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Guide or counsel students with adjustment problems, academic problems, or special academic interests. Plan or conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Organize and display students' work in a manner appropriate for their perceptual skills. Prepare objectives, outlines, or other materials for courses of study following curriculum guidelines or school or state requirements. Prepare assignments for teacher assistants or volunteers. Present information in audio-visual or interactive formats, using computers, televisions, audio-visual aids, or other equipment, materials, or technologies. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment or materials to prevent injuries and damage. Administer standardized ability and achievement tests to kindergarten or elementary students with special needs. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, or teacher training workshops to maintain or improve professional competence. Organize and supervise games or other recreational activities to promote physical, mental, or social development. Control the inventory or distribution of classroom equipment, materials, or supplies. Plan or supervise experiential learning activities, such as class projects, field trips, demonstrations, or visits by guest speakers. Perform administrative duties, such as assisting in school libraries, hall or cafeteria monitoring, or bus loading or unloading. Instruct students in daily living skills required for independent maintenance and self-sufficiency, such as hygiene, safety, or food preparation. Visit schools to tutor students with sensory impairments or to consult with teachers regarding students' special needs. Interpret or transcribe classroom materials into Braille or sign language.
25-2053| Special Education Teachers, Middle School|Establish and enforce rules for behavior and policies and procedures to maintain order among students. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Modify the general education curriculum for special-needs students based upon a variety of instructional techniques and instructional technology. Teach socially acceptable behavior, employing techniques such as behavior modification and positive reinforcement. Instruct through lectures, discussions, and demonstrations in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies. Develop and implement strategies to meet the needs of students with a variety of handicapping conditions. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Employ special educational strategies and techniques during instruction to improve the development of sensory- and perceptual-motor skills, language, cognition, and memory. Confer with parents, administrators, testing specialists, social workers, and professionals to develop individual educational plans designed to promote students' educational, physical, and social development. Maintain accurate and complete student records, and prepare reports on children and activities, as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Confer with parents or guardians, other teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems, or special academic interests. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate students' progress. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Coordinate placement of students with special needs into mainstream classes. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Teach students personal development skills such as goal setting, independence, and self-advocacy. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine priorities for their children and their resource needs. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Monitor teachers and teacher assistants to ensure that they adhere to inclusive special education program requirements. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injuries and damage. Supervise, evaluate, and plan assignments for teacher assistants and volunteers. Administer standardized ability and achievement tests and interpret results to determine students' strengths and areas of need. Organize and label materials and display students' work. Meet with parents and guardians to provide guidance in using community resources and to teach skills for dealing with students' impairments. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Organize and supervise games and other recreational activities to promote physical, mental, and social development. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Perform administrative duties such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading. Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers, or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Instruct students in daily living skills required for independent maintenance and self-sufficiency, such as hygiene, safety, and food preparation. Provide assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities such as restrooms. Visit schools to tutor students with sensory impairments and to consult with teachers regarding students' special needs. Provide additional instruction in vocational areas. Provide interpretation and transcription of regular classroom materials through Braille and sign language.
25-2054| Special Education Teachers, Secondary School|Establish and enforce rules for behavior and policies and procedures to maintain order among students. Teach socially acceptable behavior, employing techniques such as behavior modification and positive reinforcement. Modify the general education curriculum for special-needs students, based upon a variety of instructional techniques and technologies. Develop and implement strategies to meet the needs of students with a variety of handicapping conditions. Maintain accurate and complete student records, and prepare reports on children and activities, as required by laws, district policies, and administrative regulations. Prepare, administer, and grade tests and assignments to evaluate students' progress. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Confer with parents or guardians, other teachers, counselors, and administrators to resolve students' behavioral and academic problems. Employ special educational strategies and techniques during instruction to improve the development of sensory- and perceptual-motor skills, language, cognition, and memory. Teach personal development skills such as goal setting, independence, and self-advocacy. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems, or special academic interests. Instruct through lectures, discussions, and demonstrations in one or more subjects, such as English, mathematics, or social studies. Confer with parents, administrators, testing specialists, social workers, and professionals to develop individual educational plans designed to promote students' educational, physical, and social development. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Prepare students for later grades by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine priorities for their children and their resource needs. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Observe and evaluate students' performance, behavior, social development, and physical health. Coordinate placement of students with special needs into mainstream classes. Monitor teachers and teacher assistants to ensure that they adhere to inclusive special education program requirements. Meet with parents and guardians to provide guidance in using community resources and to teach skills for dealing with students' impairments. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Instruct students in daily living skills required for independent maintenance and self-sufficiency, such as hygiene, safety, and food preparation. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning, following approved curricula. Provide additional instruction in vocational areas. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Administer standardized ability and achievement tests and interpret results to determine students' strengths and areas of need. Attend professional meetings, educational conferences, and teacher training workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Collaborate with other teachers and administrators in the development, evaluation, and revision of secondary school programs. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers, or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Perform administrative duties such as assisting in school libraries, hall and cafeteria monitoring, and bus loading and unloading. Select, store, order, issue, and inventory classroom equipment, materials, and supplies. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injuries and damage. Provide assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities such as restrooms. Provide interpretation and transcription of regular classroom materials through Braille and sign language. Visit schools to tutor students with sensory impairments and to consult with teachers regarding students' special needs. Sponsor extracurricular activities such as clubs, student organizations, and academic contests.
25-2059| Special Education Teachers, All Other|Provide adapted physical education services to students with intellectual disabilities, autism, traumatic brain injury, orthopedic impairments, or other disabling condition. Adapt instructional techniques to the age and skill levels of students. Instruct students, using adapted physical education techniques, to improve physical fitness, gross motor skills, perceptual motor skills, or sports and game achievement. Maintain thorough student records to document attendance, participation, or progress, ensuring confidentiality of all records. Assist in screening or placement of students in adapted physical education programs. Provide students positive feedback to encourage them and help them develop an appreciation for physical education. Assess students' physical progress or needs. Prepare lesson plans in accordance with individualized education plans (IEPs) and the functional abilities or needs of students. Establish and maintain standards of behavior to create safe, orderly, and effective environments for learning. Provide individual or small groups of students with adapted physical education instruction that meets desired physical needs or goals. Write or modify individualized education plans (IEPs) for students with intellectual or physical disabilities. Evaluate the motor needs of individual students to determine their need for adapted physical education services. Communicate behavioral observations and student progress reports to students, parents, teachers, or administrators. Write reports to summarize student performance, social growth, or physical development. Advise education professionals of students' physical abilities or disabilities and the accommodations required to enhance their school performance. Attend in-service training, workshops, or meetings to keep abreast of current practices or trends in adapted physical education. Review adapted physical education programs or practices to ensure compliance with government or other regulations. Request or order physical education equipment, following standard procedures. Maintain inventory of instructional equipment, materials, or aids.
25-3011| Adult Basic and Secondary Education and Literacy Teachers and Instructors|Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs, abilities, and interests. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by laws or administrative policies. Assign and grade class work and homework. Prepare and administer written, oral, and performance tests and issue grades in accordance with performance. Conduct classes, workshops, and demonstrations to teach principles, techniques, or methods in subjects, such as basic English language skills, life skills, and workforce entry skills. Observe and evaluate students' work to determine progress and make suggestions for improvement. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Instruct students individually and in groups, using various teaching methods, such as lectures, discussions, and demonstrations. Guide and counsel students with adjustment or academic problems or special academic interests. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Observe students to determine qualifications, limitations, abilities, interests, and other individual characteristics. Prepare objectives and outlines for courses of study, following curriculum guidelines or requirements of states and schools. Register, orient, and assess new students according to standards and procedures. Review instructional content, methods, and student evaluations to assess strengths and weaknesses, and to develop recommendations for course revision, development, or elimination. Establish and enforce rules for behavior and procedures for maintaining order among the students for whom they are responsible. Prepare students for further education by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Enforce administration policies and rules governing students. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Meet with other professionals to discuss individual students' needs and progress. Prepare for assigned classes and show written evidence of preparation upon request of immediate supervisors. Select, order, and issue books, materials, and supplies for courses or projects. Prepare reports on students and activities as required by administration. Confer with other staff members to plan and schedule lessons that promote learning, following approved curricula. Attend professional meetings, conferences, and workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Collaborate with other teachers and professionals in the development of instructional programs. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers, contests, or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Participate in publicity planning, community awareness efforts, and student recruitment. Provide information, guidance, and preparation for the General Equivalency Diploma (GED) examination. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities, such as restrooms. Write grants to obtain program funding. Select and schedule class times to ensure maximum attendance. Confer with leaders of government and community groups to coordinate student training or to find opportunities for students to fulfill curriculum requirements. Observe and evaluate the performance of other instructors. Train and assist tutors and community literacy volunteers. Advise students on internships, prospective employers, and job placement services.
25-3021| Self-Enrichment Education Teachers|Monitor students' performance to make suggestions for improvement and to ensure that they satisfy course standards, training requirements, and objectives. Instruct students individually and in groups, using various teaching methods such as lectures, discussions, and demonstrations. Enforce policies and rules governing students. Observe students to determine qualifications, limitations, abilities, interests, and other individual characteristics. Conduct classes, workshops, and demonstrations, and provide individual instruction to teach topics and skills such as cooking, dancing, writing, physical fitness, photography, personal finance, and flying. Adapt teaching methods and instructional materials to meet students' varying needs and interests. Establish clear objectives for all lessons, units, and projects and communicate those objectives to students. Prepare students for further development by encouraging them to explore learning opportunities and to persevere with challenging tasks. Plan and conduct activities for a balanced program of instruction, demonstration, and work time that provides students with opportunities to observe, question, and investigate. Prepare instructional program objectives, outlines, and lesson plans. Review instructional content, methods, and student evaluations to assess strengths and weaknesses, and to develop recommendations for course revision, development, or elimination. Prepare materials and classrooms for class activities. Attend professional meetings, conferences, and workshops to maintain and improve professional competence. Maintain accurate and complete student records as required by administrative policy. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injury and damage. Schedule class times to ensure maximum attendance. Assign and grade class work and homework. Prepare and administer written, oral, and performance tests, and issue grades in accordance with performance. Organize and supervise games and other recreational activities to promote physical, mental, and social development. Meet with parents and guardians to discuss their children's progress and to determine their priorities for their children. Prepare and implement remedial programs for students requiring extra help. Select, order, and issue books, materials, and supplies for courses or projects. Participate in publicity planning and student recruitment. Confer with other teachers and professionals to plan and schedule lessons promoting learning and development. Plan and supervise class projects, field trips, visits by guest speakers, contests, or other experiential activities, and guide students in learning from those activities. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Meet with other instructors to discuss individual students and their progress. Observe and evaluate the performance of other instructors. Write instructional articles on designated subjects.
25-4011| Archivists|Organize archival records and develop classification systems to facilitate access to archival materials. Provide reference services and assistance for users needing archival materials. Prepare archival records, such as document descriptions, to allow easy access to information. Authenticate and appraise historical documents and archival materials. Create and maintain accessible, retrievable computer archives and databases, incorporating current advances in electronic information storage technology. Preserve records, documents, and objects, copying records to film, videotape, audiotape, disk, or computer formats as necessary. Establish and administer policy guidelines concerning public access and use of materials. Direct activities of workers who assist in arranging, cataloguing, exhibiting, and maintaining collections of valuable materials. Research and record the origins and historical significance of archival materials. Locate new materials and direct their acquisition and display. Coordinate educational and public outreach programs, such as tours, workshops, lectures, and classes. Specialize in an area of history or technology, researching topics or items relevant to collections to determine what should be retained or acquired. Select and edit documents for publication and display, applying knowledge of subject, literary expression, and presentation techniques.
25-4012| Curators|Plan and organize the acquisition, storage, and exhibition of collections and related materials, including the selection of exhibition themes and designs, and develop or install exhibit materials. Write and review grant proposals, journal articles, institutional reports, and publicity materials. Plan and conduct special research projects in area of interest or expertise. Confer with the board of directors to formulate and interpret policies, to determine budget requirements, and to plan overall operations. Train and supervise curatorial, fiscal, technical, research, and clerical staff, as well as volunteers or interns. Develop and maintain an institution's registration, cataloging, and basic record-keeping systems, using computer databases. Negotiate and authorize purchase, sale, exchange, or loan of collections. Provide information from the institution's holdings to other curators and to the public. Attend meetings, conventions, and civic events to promote use of institution's services, to seek financing, and to maintain community alliances. Design, organize, or conduct tours, workshops, and instructional or educational sessions to acquaint individuals with an institution's facilities and materials. Inspect premises to assess the need for repairs and to ensure that climate and pest control issues are addressed. Study, examine, and test acquisitions to authenticate their origin, composition, history, and to assess their current value. Arrange insurance coverage for objects on loan or for special exhibits and recommend changes in coverage for the entire collection. Schedule events and organize details, including refreshment, entertainment, decorations, and the collection of any fees.
25-4013| Museum Technicians and Conservators|Clean objects, such as paper, textiles, wood, metal, glass, rock, pottery, and furniture, using cleansers, solvents, soap solutions, and polishes. Determine whether objects need repair and choose the safest and most effective method of repair. Install, arrange, assemble, and prepare artifacts for exhibition, ensuring the artifacts' safety, reporting their status and condition, and identifying and correcting any problems with the set up. Direct and supervise curatorial, technical, and student staff in the handling, mounting, care, and storage of art objects. Perform tests and examinations to establish storage and conservation requirements, policies, and procedures. Prepare artifacts for storage and shipping. Photograph objects for documentation. Coordinate exhibit installations, assisting with design, constructing displays, dioramas, display cases, and models, and ensuring the availability of necessary materials. Notify superior when restoration of artifacts requires outside experts. Lead tours and teach educational courses to students and the general public. Supervise and work with volunteers. Specialize in particular materials or types of object, such as documents and books, paintings, decorative arts, textiles, metals, or architectural materials. Repair, restore and reassemble artifacts, designing and fabricating missing or broken parts, to restore them to their original appearance and prevent deterioration. Prepare reports on the operation of conservation laboratories, documenting the condition of artifacts, treatment options, and the methods of preservation and repair used. Recommend preservation procedures, such as control of temperature and humidity, to curatorial and building staff. Study object documentation or conduct standard chemical and physical tests to ascertain the object's age, composition, original appearance, need for treatment or restoration, and appropriate preservation method. Classify and assign registration numbers to artifacts and supervise inventory control. Estimate cost of restoration work. Plan and conduct research to develop and improve methods of restoring and preserving specimens. Preserve or direct preservation of objects, using plaster, resin, sealants, hardeners, and shellac. Deliver artwork on courier trips. Perform on-site field work which may involve interviewing people, inspecting and identifying artifacts, note-taking, viewing sites and collections, and repainting exhibition spaces. Construct skeletal mounts of fossils, replicas of archaeological artifacts, or duplicate specimens, using a variety of materials and hand tools.
25-4021| Librarians|Analyze patrons' requests to determine needed information and assist in furnishing or locating that information. Search standard reference materials, including online sources and the Internet, to answer patrons' reference questions. Teach library patrons basic computer skills, such as searching computerized databases. Plan and teach classes on topics such as information literacy, library instruction, and technology use. Review and evaluate materials, using book reviews, catalogs, faculty recommendations, and current holdings to select and order print, audio-visual, and electronic resources. Locate unusual or unique information in response to specific requests. Explain use of library facilities, resources, equipment, and services and provide information about library policies. Plan and deliver client-centered programs and services, such as special services for corporate clients, storytelling for children, newsletters, or programs for special groups. Respond to customer complaints, taking action as necessary. Develop library policies and procedures. Organize collections of books, publications, documents, audio-visual aids, and other reference materials for convenient access. Confer with colleagues, faculty, and community members and organizations to conduct informational programs, make collection decisions, and determine library services to offer. Develop, maintain, and troubleshoot information access aids, such as databases, annotated bibliographies, web pages, electronic pathfinders, software programs, and online tutorials. Evaluate vendor products and performance, negotiate contracts, and place orders. Direct and train library staff in duties, such as receiving, shelving, researching, cataloging, and equipment use. Evaluate materials to determine outdated or unused items to be discarded. Engage in professional development activities, such as taking continuing education classes and attending or participating in conferences, workshops, professional meetings, and associations. Compile lists of books, periodicals, articles, and audio-visual materials on particular subjects. Represent library or institution on internal and external committees. Code, classify, and catalog books, publications, films, audio-visual aids, and other library materials based on subject matter or standard library classification systems. Develop and maintain databases that provide information for library users. Design information storage and retrieval systems and develop procedures for collecting, organizing, interpreting, and classifying information. Keep up-to-date records of circulation and materials, maintain inventory, and correct cataloging errors. Supervise daily library operations, budgeting, planning, and personnel activities, such as hiring, training, scheduling, and performance evaluations. Negotiate contracts for library services, materials, and equipment. Arrange for interlibrary loans of materials not available in a particular library. Check books in and out of the library. Collect and organize books, pamphlets, manuscripts, and other materials in specific fields, such as rare books, genealogy, or music. Author or publish professional articles, internal documents, and instructional materials. Write proposals for research or project grants. Compile lists of overdue materials and notify borrowers that their materials are overdue. Plan and participate in fundraising drives. Assemble and arrange display materials. Perform public relations work for the library, such as giving televised book reviews and community talks. Provide input into the architectural planning of library facilities.
25-4031| Library Technicians|Help patrons find and use library resources, such as reference materials, audio-visual equipment, computers, and other electronic resources and provide technical assistance when needed. Answer routine telephone or in-person reference inquiries, referring patrons to librarians for further assistance, when necessary. Process print and non-print library materials to prepare them for inclusion in library collections. Reserve, circulate, renew, and discharge books and other materials. Catalogue and sort books and other print and non-print materials according to procedure and return them to shelves, files, or other designated storage areas. Provide assistance to teachers and students by locating materials and helping to complete special projects. Organize and maintain periodicals and reference materials. Maintain and troubleshoot problems with library equipment, including computers, photocopiers, and audio-visual equipment. Deliver and retrieve items throughout the library by hand or using pushcart. Train other staff, volunteers, or student assistants and schedule and supervise their work. Order all print and non-print library materials, checking prices, figuring costs, preparing order slips, and making payments. Process interlibrary loans for patrons. Enter and update patrons' records on computers. Retrieve information from central databases for storage in a library's computer. Prepare volumes for binding. Verify bibliographical data for materials, including author, title, publisher, publication date, and edition. Review subject matter of materials to be classified and select classification numbers and headings according to classification systems. Issue identification cards to borrowers. Send out notices about lost or overdue books. Collect fines and respond to complaints about fines. Compile and maintain records relating to circulation, materials, and equipment. Check for damaged library materials, such as books or audio-visual equipment, and provide replacements or make repairs. Collaborate with archivists to arrange for the safe storage of historical records and documents. Claim missing issues of periodicals and journals. Conduct reference searches, using printed materials and in-house and online databases. Take actions to halt disruption of library activities by problem patrons. Plan and conduct children's programs, community outreach programs, and other specialized programs, such as library tours. File catalog cards according to system used. Compile data and create statistical reports on library usage.
25-9011| Audio-Visual and Multimedia Collections Specialists|Set up, adjust, and operate audio-visual equipment, such as cameras, film and slide projectors, and recording equipment, for meetings, events, classes, seminars, and video conferences. Maintain hardware and software, including computers, scanners, color copiers, and color laser printers. Install audio-visual equipment. Instruct users in the selection, use, and design of audio-visual materials and assist them in the preparation of instructional materials and the rehearsal of presentations. Direct and coordinate activities of assistants and other personnel during production. Plan and prepare audio-visual teaching aids and methods for use in school systems. Determine formats, approaches, content, levels, and mediums necessary to meet production objectives effectively and within budgetary constraints. Perform simple maintenance tasks, such as cleaning monitors and lenses and changing batteries and light bulbs. Acquire, catalog, and maintain collections of audio-visual material such as films, video- and audio-tapes, photographs, and software programs. Attend conventions and conferences, read trade journals, and communicate with industry insiders to keep abreast of industry developments. Develop manuals, texts, workbooks, or related materials for use in conjunction with production materials. Confer with teachers to select course materials and to determine which training aids are best suited to particular grade levels. Offer presentations and workshops on the role of multimedia in effective presentations. Produce rough and finished graphics and graphic designs. Construct and position properties, sets, lighting equipment, and other equipment. Locate and secure settings, properties, effects, and other production necessities.
25-9021| Farm and Home Management Advisors|Collect and evaluate data to determine community program needs. Prepare and distribute leaflets, pamphlets, and visual aids for educational and informational purposes. Conduct classes or deliver lectures on subjects such as nutrition, home management, and farming techniques. Research information requested by farmers. Collaborate with producers to diagnose and prevent management and production problems. Advise farmers and demonstrate techniques in areas such as feeding and health maintenance of livestock, growing and harvesting practices, and financial planning. Conduct field demonstrations of new products, techniques, or services. Organize, advise, and participate in community activities and organizations such as county and state fair events and 4-H Clubs. Act as an advocate for farmers or farmers' groups. Collaborate with social service and health care professionals to advise individuals and families on home management practices such as budget planning, meal preparation, and time management. Conduct agricultural research, analyze data, and prepare research reports. Schedule and make regular visits to farmers. Maintain records of services provided and the effects of advice given. Provide direct assistance to farmers by performing activities such as purchasing or selling products and supplies, supervising properties, and collecting soil and herbage samples for testing. Set and monitor production targets.
25-9031| Instructional Coordinators|Plan and conduct teacher training programs and conferences dealing with new classroom procedures, instructional materials and equipment, and teaching aids. Observe work of teaching staff to evaluate performance and to recommend changes that could strengthen teaching skills. Confer with members of educational committees and advisory groups to obtain knowledge of subject areas and to relate curriculum materials to specific subjects, individual student needs, and occupational areas. Research, evaluate, and prepare recommendations on curricula, instructional methods, and materials for school systems. Conduct or participate in workshops, committees, and conferences designed to promote the intellectual, social, and physical welfare of students. Advise teaching and administrative staff in curriculum development, use of materials and equipment, and implementation of state and federal programs and procedures. Advise and teach students. Organize production and design of curriculum materials. Recommend, order, or authorize purchase of instructional materials, supplies, equipment, and visual aids designed to meet student educational needs and district standards. Interpret and enforce provisions of state education codes and rules and regulations of state education boards. Address public audiences to explain program objectives and to elicit support. Prepare grant proposals, budgets, and program policies and goals or assist in their preparation. Develop tests, questionnaires, and procedures that measure the effectiveness of curricula and use these tools to determine whether program objectives are being met. Develop instructional materials to be used by educators and instructors. Update the content of educational programs to ensure that students are being trained with equipment and processes that are technologically current. Prepare or approve manuals, guidelines, and reports on state educational policies and practices for distribution to school districts. Inspect instructional equipment to determine if repairs are needed and authorize necessary repairs. Develop classroom-based and distance learning training courses, using needs assessments and skill level analyses. Coordinate activities of workers engaged in cataloging, distributing, and maintaining educational materials and equipment in curriculum libraries and laboratories.
25-9041| Teacher Assistants|Provide extra assistance to students with special needs, such as non-English-speaking students or those with physical and mental disabilities. Supervise students in classrooms, halls, cafeterias, school yards, and gymnasiums, or on field trips. Tutor and assist children individually or in small groups to help them master assignments and to reinforce learning concepts presented by teachers. Enforce administration policies and rules governing students. Discuss assigned duties with classroom teachers to coordinate instructional efforts. Instruct and monitor students in the use and care of equipment and materials to prevent injuries and damage. Observe students' performance, and record relevant data to assess progress. Present subject matter to students under the direction and guidance of teachers, using lectures, discussions, or supervised role-playing methods. Prepare lesson materials, bulletin board displays, exhibits, equipment, and demonstrations. Organize and supervise games and other recreational activities to promote physical, mental, and social development. Distribute teaching materials such as textbooks, workbooks, papers, and pencils to students. Organize and label materials and display students' work in a manner appropriate for their eye levels and perceptual skills. Use computers, audio-visual aids, and other equipment and materials to supplement presentations. Attend staff meetings and serve on committees, as required. Type, file, and duplicate materials. Laminate teaching materials to increase their durability under repeated use. Provide disabled students with assistive devices, supportive technology, and assistance accessing facilities such as restrooms. Carry out therapeutic regimens such as behavior modification and personal development programs, under the supervision of special education instructors, psychologists, or speech-language pathologists. Assist in bus loading and unloading. Maintain computers in classrooms and laboratories and assist students with hardware and software use. Distribute tests and homework assignments and collect them when they are completed. Grade homework and tests, and compute and record results, using answer sheets or electronic marking devices. Take class attendance and maintain attendance records. Prepare lesson outlines and plans in assigned subject areas and submit outlines to teachers for review. Participate in teacher-parent conferences regarding students' progress or problems. Conduct demonstrations to teach such skills as sports, dancing, and handicrafts. Plan, prepare, and develop various teaching aids such as bibliographies, charts, and graphs. Requisition and stock teaching materials and supplies. Operate and maintain audio-visual equipment. Collect money from students for school-related projects.
27-1011| Art Directors|Formulate basic layout design or presentation approach and specify material details, such as style and size of type, photographs, graphics, animation, video, and sound. Manage own accounts and projects, working within budget and scheduling requirements. Confer with creative, art, copywriting, or production department heads to discuss client requirements and presentation concepts and to coordinate creative activities. Present final layouts to clients for approval. Review and approve art materials, copy materials, and proofs of printed copy developed by staff members. Work with creative directors to develop design solutions. Create custom illustrations or other graphic elements. Confer with clients to determine objectives, budget, background information, and presentation approaches, styles, and techniques. Review illustrative material to determine if it conforms to standards and specifications. Negotiate with printers and estimators to determine what services will be performed. Attend photo shoots and printing sessions to ensure that the products needed are obtained. Research current trends and new technology, such as printing production techniques, computer software, and design trends. Hire, train, and direct staff members who develop design concepts into art layouts or who prepare layouts for printing. Mark up, paste, and complete layouts and write typography instructions to prepare materials for typesetting or printing. Conceptualize and help design interfaces for multimedia games, products, and devices. Prepare detailed storyboards showing sequence and timing of story development for television production.
27-1012| Craft Artists|Create functional or decorative objects by hand, using a variety of methods and materials. Cut, shape, fit, join, mold, or otherwise process materials, using hand tools, power tools, or machinery. Attend craft shows to market products. Select materials for use based on strength, color, texture, balance, weight, size, malleability and other characteristics. Apply finishes to objects being crafted. Develop concepts or creative ideas for craft objects. Set specifications for materials, dimensions, and finishes. Confer with customers to assess customer needs or obtain feedback. Fabricate patterns or templates to guide craft production. Create prototypes or models of objects to be crafted. Sketch or draw objects to be crafted. Advertise products and work, using media such as internet advertising and brochures. Develop product packaging, display, and pricing strategies. Research craft trends, venues, and customer buying patterns to inspire designs and marketing strategies.
27-1013| Fine Artists, Including Painters, Sculptors, and Illustrators|Use materials such as pens and ink, watercolors, charcoal, oil, or computer software to create artwork. Integrate and develop visual elements, such as line, space, mass, color, and perspective, to produce desired effects, such as the illustration of ideas, emotions, or moods. Confer with clients, editors, writers, art directors, and other interested parties regarding the nature and content of artwork to be produced. Submit preliminary or finished artwork or project plans to clients for approval, incorporating changes as necessary. Maintain portfolios of artistic work to demonstrate styles, interests, and abilities. Create finished art work as decoration, or to elucidate or substitute for spoken or written messages. Cut, bend, laminate, arrange, and fasten individual or mixed raw and manufactured materials and products to form works of art. Monitor events, trends, and other circumstances, research specific subject areas, attend art exhibitions, and read art publications to develop ideas and keep current on art world activities. Study different techniques to learn how to apply them to artistic endeavors. Render drawings, illustrations, and sketches of buildings, manufactured products, or models, working from sketches, blueprints, memory, models, or reference materials. Create sketches, profiles, or likenesses of posed subjects or photographs, using any combination of freehand drawing, mechanical assembly kits, and computer imaging. Create sculptures, statues, and other three-dimensional artwork by using abrasives and tools to shape, carve, and fabricate materials such as clay, stone, wood, or metal. Study styles, techniques, colors, textures, and materials used in works undergoing restoration to ensure consistency during the restoration process. Develop project budgets for approval, estimating time lines and material costs. Shade and fill in sketch outlines and backgrounds, using a variety of media such as water colors, markers, and transparent washes, labeling designated colors when necessary. Collaborate with engineers, mechanics, and other technical experts as necessary to build and install creations. Create and prepare sketches and model drawings of cartoon characters, providing details from memory, live models, manufactured products, or reference materials. Examine and test paintings in need of restoration or cleaning to determine techniques and materials to be used. Create graphics, illustrations, and three-dimensional models to be used in research or in teaching, such as in demonstrating anatomy, pathology, or surgical procedures. Brush or spray protective or decorative finishes on completed background panels, informational legends, exhibit accessories, or finished paintings.
27-1014| Multimedia Artists and Animators|Create two-dimensional and three-dimensional images depicting objects in motion or illustrating a process, using computer animation or modeling programs. Design complex graphics and animation, using independent judgment, creativity, and computer equipment. Make objects or characters appear lifelike by manipulating light, color, texture, shadow, and transparency, or manipulating static images to give the illusion of motion. Apply story development, directing, cinematography, and editing to animation to create storyboards that show the flow of the animation and map out key scenes and characters. Participate in design and production of multimedia campaigns, handling budgeting and scheduling, and assisting with such responsibilities as production coordination, background design, and progress tracking. Create basic designs, drawings, and illustrations for product labels, cartons, direct mail, or television. Develop briefings, brochures, multimedia presentations, web pages, promotional products, technical illustrations, and computer artwork for use in products, technical manuals, literature, newsletters, and slide shows. Script, plan, and create animated narrative sequences under tight deadlines, using computer software and hand drawing techniques. Implement and maintain configuration control systems. Assemble, typeset, scan and produce digital camera-ready art or film negatives and printer's proofs. Create pen-and-paper images to be scanned, edited, colored, textured, or animated by computer. Use models to simulate the behavior of animated objects in the finished sequence. Create and install special effects as required by the script, mixing chemicals and fabricating needed parts from wood, metal, plaster, and clay.
27-1021| Commercial and Industrial Designers|Prepare sketches of ideas, detailed drawings, illustrations, artwork, or blueprints, using drafting instruments, paints and brushes, or computer-aided design equipment. Confer with engineering, marketing, production, or sales departments, or with customers, to establish and evaluate design concepts for manufactured products. Modify and refine designs, using working models, to conform with customer specifications, production limitations, or changes in design trends. Direct and coordinate the fabrication of models or samples and the drafting of working drawings and specification sheets from sketches. Evaluate feasibility of design ideas, based on factors such as appearance, safety, function, serviceability, budget, production costs/methods, and market characteristics. Present designs and reports to customers or design committees for approval and discuss need for modification. Investigate product characteristics such as the product's safety and handling qualities, its market appeal, how efficiently it can be produced, and ways of distributing, using and maintaining it. Develop manufacturing procedures and monitor the manufacture of their designs in a factory to improve operations and product quality. Research production specifications, costs, production materials and manufacturing methods and provide cost estimates and itemized production requirements. Participate in new product planning or market research, including studying the potential need for new products. Fabricate models or samples in paper, wood, glass, fabric, plastic, metal, or other materials, using hand or power tools. Coordinate the look and function of product lines. Design graphic material for use as ornamentation, illustration, or advertising on manufactured materials and packaging or containers. Supervise assistants' work throughout the design process. Advise corporations on issues involving corporate image projects or problems.
27-1022| Fashion Designers|Direct and coordinate workers involved in drawing and cutting patterns and constructing samples or finished garments. Examine sample garments on and off models, modifying designs to achieve desired effects. Sketch rough and detailed drawings of apparel or accessories, and write specifications such as color schemes, construction, material types, and accessory requirements. Confer with sales and management executives or with clients to discuss design ideas. Identify target markets for designs, looking at factors such as age, gender, and socioeconomic status. Attend fashion shows and review garment magazines and manuals to gather information about fashion trends and consumer preferences. Select materials and production techniques to be used for products. Provide sample garments to agents and sales representatives, and arrange for showings of sample garments at sales meetings or fashion shows. Adapt other designers' ideas for the mass market. Purchase new or used clothing and accessory items as needed to complete designs. Visit textile showrooms to keep up-to-date on the latest fabrics. Collaborate with other designers to coordinate special products and designs. Design custom clothing and accessories for individuals, retailers, or theatrical, television, or film productions. Determine prices for styles. Draw patterns for articles designed, cut patterns, and cut material according to patterns, using measuring instruments and scissors. Develop a group of products or accessories, and market them through venues such as boutiques or mail-order catalogs. Read scripts and consult directors and other production staff to develop design concepts and plan productions. Test fabrics or oversee testing so that garment care labels can be created. Sew together sections of material to form mockups or samples of garments or articles, using sewing equipment.
27-1023| Floral Designers|Confer with clients regarding price and type of arrangement desired and the date, time, and place of delivery. Select flora and foliage for arrangements, working with numerous combinations to synthesize and develop new creations. Order and purchase flowers and supplies from wholesalers and growers. Deliver arrangements to customers, or oversee employees responsible for deliveries. Plan arrangement according to client's requirements, utilizing knowledge of design and properties of materials, or select appropriate standard design pattern. Water plants, and cut, condition, and clean flowers and foliage for storage. Trim material and arrange bouquets, wreaths, terrariums, and other items using trimmers, shapers, wire, pins, floral tape, foam, and other materials. Wrap and price completed arrangements. Perform office and retail service duties such as keeping financial records, serving customers, answering telephones, selling giftware items and receiving payment. Unpack stock as it comes into the shop. Create and change in-store and window displays, designs, and looks to enhance a shop's image. Inform customers about the care, maintenance, and handling of various flowers and foliage, indoor plants, and other items. Perform general cleaning duties in the store to ensure the shop is clean and tidy. Decorate or supervise the decoration of buildings, halls, churches, or other facilities for parties, weddings and other occasions. Conduct classes or demonstrations, or train other workers.
27-1024| Graphic Designers|Create designs, concepts, and sample layouts, based on knowledge of layout principles and esthetic design concepts. Determine size and arrangement of illustrative material and copy, and select style and size of type. Confer with clients to discuss and determine layout design. Develop graphics and layouts for product illustrations, company logos, and Web sites. Review final layouts and suggest improvements as needed. Prepare illustrations or rough sketches of material, discussing them with clients or supervisors and making necessary changes. Use computer software to generate new images. Key information into computer equipment to create layouts for client or supervisor. Maintain archive of images, photos, or previous work products. Prepare notes and instructions for workers who assemble and prepare final layouts for printing. Draw and print charts, graphs, illustrations, and other artwork, using computer. Study illustrations and photographs to plan presentation of materials, products, or services. Research new software or design concepts. Mark up, paste, and assemble final layouts to prepare layouts for printer. Produce still and animated graphics for on-air and taped portions of television news broadcasts, using electronic video equipment.
27-1025| Interior Designers|Confer with client to determine factors affecting planning interior environments, such as budget, architectural preferences, and purpose and function. Advise client on interior design factors such as space planning, layout and use of furnishings or equipment, and color coordination. Coordinate with other professionals, such as contractors, architects, engineers, and plumbers, to ensure job success. Review and detail shop drawings for construction plans. Estimate material requirements and costs, and present design to client for approval. Subcontract fabrication, installation, and arrangement of carpeting, fixtures, accessories, draperies, paint and wall coverings, art work, furniture, and related items. Formulate environmental plan to be practical, esthetic, and conducive to intended purposes, such as raising productivity or selling merchandise. Select or design, and purchase furnishings, art works, and accessories. Render design ideas in form of paste-ups or drawings. Use computer-aided drafting (CAD) and related software to produce construction documents.
27-1026| Merchandise Displayers and Window Trimmers|Plan commercial displays to entice and appeal to customers. Arrange properties, furniture, merchandise, backdrops, or other accessories, as shown in prepared sketches. Change or rotate window displays, interior display areas, or signage to reflect changes in inventory or promotion. Place prices or descriptive signs on backdrops, fixtures, merchandise, or floor. Consult with store managers, buyers, sales associates, housekeeping staff, or engineering staff to determine appropriate placement of displays or products. Maintain props, products, or mannequins, inspecting them for imperfections, doing touch-ups, cleaning up after customers, or applying preservative coatings as necessary. Develop ideas or plans for merchandise displays or window decorations. Assemble or set up displays, furniture, or products in store space while utilizing colors, lights, pictures, or other accessories to display the product. Install booths, exhibits, displays, carpets, or drapes, as guided by floor plan of building or specifications. Select themes, lighting, colors, or props to be used. Consult with advertising or sales staff to determine type of merchandise to be featured and time and place for each display. Attend training sessions or corporate planning meetings to obtain new ideas for product launches. Collaborate with others to obtain products or other display items. Construct or assemble displays or display components from fabric, glass, paper, or plastic, using hand tools or woodworking power tools, according to specifications. Obtain plans from display designers or display managers and discuss their implementation with clients or supervisors. Take photographs of displays or signage. Dress mannequins for displays. Supervise or train staff members on daily tasks, such as visual merchandising. Store, pack, and maintain inventory records of props, products, or display items. Use computers to produce signage. Prepare sketches, floor plans, or models of proposed displays. Instruct sales staff in color coordination of clothing racks or counter displays. Install decorations, such as flags, banners, festive lights, or bunting on or in building, street, exhibit hall, or booth. Cut out designs on cardboard, hardboard, or plywood, according to motif of event.
27-1027| Set and Exhibit Designers|Prepare rough drafts and scale working drawings of sets, including floor plans, scenery, and properties to be constructed. Read scripts in order to determine location, set, and design requirements. Develop set designs based on evaluation of scripts, budgets, research information, and available locations. Attend rehearsals and production meetings in order to obtain and share information related to sets. Confer with clients and staff in order to gather information about exhibit space, proposed themes and content, timelines, budgets, materials, and/or promotion requirements. Collaborate with those in charge of lighting and sound so that those production aspects can be coordinated with set designs or exhibit layouts. Prepare preliminary renderings of proposed exhibits, including detailed construction, layout, and material specifications, and diagrams relating to aspects such as special effects and/or lighting. Research architectural and stylistic elements appropriate to the time period to be depicted, consulting experts for information as necessary. Select set props such as furniture, pictures, lamps, and rugs. Inspect installed exhibits for conformance to specifications, and satisfactory operation of special effects components. Assign staff to complete design ideas and prepare sketches, illustrations, and detailed drawings of sets, or graphics and animation. Examine objects to be included in exhibits in order to plan where and how to display them. Observe sets during rehearsals in order to ensure that set elements do not interfere with performance aspects such as cast movement and camera angles. Submit plans for approval, and adapt plans to serve intended purposes, or to conform to budget or fabrication restrictions. Direct and coordinate construction, erection, or decoration activities in order to ensure that sets or exhibits meet design, budget, and schedule requirements. Design and build scale models of set designs, or miniature sets used in filming backgrounds or special effects. Plan for location-specific issues such as space limitations, traffic flow patterns, and safety concerns. Estimate set- or exhibit-related costs including materials, construction, and rental of props or locations. Select and purchase lumber and hardware necessary for set construction. Coordinate the removal of sets, props, and exhibits after productions or events are complete. Coordinate the transportation of sets that are built off-site, and coordinate their setup at the site of use. Acquire, or arrange for acquisition of, specimens or graphics required to complete exhibits. Design and produce displays and materials that can be used to decorate windows, interior displays, or event locations such as streets and fairgrounds. Confer with conservators in order to determine how to handle an exhibit's environmental aspects, such as lighting, temperature, and humidity, so that objects will be protected and exhibits will be enhanced. Arrange for outside contractors to construct exhibit structures. Incorporate security systems into exhibit layouts. Provide supportive materials for exhibits and displays, such as press kits and advertising, posters, brochures, catalogues, and invitations and publicity notices.
27-2011| Actors|Study and rehearse roles from scripts to interpret, learn and memorize lines, stunts, and cues as directed. Work closely with directors, other actors, and playwrights to find the interpretation most suited to the role. Learn about characters in scripts and their relationships to each other to develop role interpretations. Collaborate with other actors as part of an ensemble. Perform humorous and serious interpretations of emotions, actions, and situations, using body movements, facial expressions, and gestures. Attend auditions and casting calls to audition for roles. Portray and interpret roles, using speech, gestures, and body movements, to entertain, inform, or instruct radio, film, television, or live audiences. Work with other crew members responsible for lighting, costumes, make-up, and props. Sing or dance during dramatic or comedic performances. Read from scripts or books to narrate action or to inform or entertain audiences, utilizing few or no stage props. Promote productions using means such as interviews about plays or movies. Write original or adapted material for dramas, comedies, puppet shows, narration, or other performances. Prepare and perform action stunts for motion picture, television, or stage productions. Tell jokes, perform comic dances, songs and skits, impersonate mannerisms and voices of others, contort face, and use other devices to amuse audiences.
27-2012| Producers and Directors|Write and edit news stories from information collected by reporters and other sources. Coordinate the activities of writers, directors, managers, and other personnel throughout the production process. Research production topics using the internet, video archives, and other informational sources. Review film, recordings, or rehearsals to ensure conformance to production and broadcast standards. Monitor postproduction processes to ensure accurate completion of details. Conduct meetings with staff to discuss production progress and to ensure production objectives are attained. Perform administrative duties, such as preparing operational reports, distributing rehearsal call sheets and script copies, and arranging for rehearsal quarters. Resolve personnel problems that arise during the production process by acting as liaisons between dissenting parties when necessary. Hire directors, principal cast members, and key production staff members. Arrange financing for productions. Determine production size, content, and budget, establishing details such as production schedules and management policies. Select plays, scripts, books, or ideas to be produced. Perform management activities such as budgeting, scheduling, planning, and marketing. Compose and edit scripts or provide screenwriters with story outlines from which scripts can be written. Negotiate with parties, including independent producers and the distributors and broadcasters who will be handling completed productions. Negotiate contracts with artistic personnel, often in accordance with collective bargaining agreements. Determine and direct the content of radio programming. Obtain rights to scripts or to such items as existing video footage. Write and submit proposals to bid on contracts for projects. Produce shows for special occasions, such as holidays or testimonials. Plan and coordinate the production of musical recordings, selecting music and directing performers. Develop marketing plans for finished products, collaborating with sales associates to supervise product distribution. Maintain knowledge of minimum wages and working conditions established by unions or associations of actors and technicians. Obtain and distribute costumes, props, music, and studio equipment needed to complete productions.Supervise and coordinate the work of camera, lighting, design, and sound crew members. Plan details such as framing, composition, camera movement, sound, and actor movement for each shot or scene. Direct live broadcasts, films and recordings, or non-broadcast programming for public entertainment or education. Confer with technical directors, managers, crew members, and writers to discuss details of production, such as photography, script, music, sets, and costumes. Compile cue words and phrases and cue announcers, cast members, and technicians during performances. Establish pace of programs and sequences of scenes according to time requirements and cast and set accessibility. Identify and approve equipment and elements required for productions, such as scenery, lights, props, costumes, choreography, and music. Consult with writers, producers, or actors about script changes or "workshop" scripts, through rehearsal with writers and actors to create final drafts. Select plays or scripts for production and determine how material should be interpreted and performed. Study and research scripts to determine how they should be directed. Communicate to actors the approach, characterization, and movement needed for each scene in such a way that rehearsals and takes are minimized. Collaborate with producers to hire crew members, such as art directors, cinematographers, and costumer designers. Collaborate with film and sound editors during the post-production process as films are edited and soundtracks are added. Create graphics for television broadcasts. Choose settings and locations for films and determine how scenes will be shot in these settings. Cut and edit film or tape to integrate component parts into desired sequences. Interpret stage-set diagrams to determine stage layouts and supervise placement of equipment and scenery. Confer with stage managers to arrange schedules for rehearsals, costume fittings, and sound or light development. Hold auditions for parts or negotiate contracts with actors determined suitable for specific roles, working in conjunction with producers. Compile scripts, program notes, and other material related to productions. Review film daily to check on work in progress and to plan for future filming. Create and approve storyboards in conjunction with art directors. Promote and market productions by giving interviews, participating in talk shows, and making other public appearances.Plan and schedule programming and event coverage, based on broadcast length, time availability, and other factors, such as community needs, ratings data, and viewer demographics. Coordinate activities between departments, such as news and programming. Direct and coordinate activities of personnel engaged in broadcast news, sports, or programming. Monitor and review programming to ensure that schedules are met, guidelines are adhered to, and performances are of adequate quality. Check completed program logs for accuracy and conformance with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations and resolve program log inaccuracies. Establish work schedules and assign work to staff members. Monitor network transmissions for advisories concerning daily program schedules, program content, special feeds, or program changes. Prepare copy and edit tape so that material is ready for broadcasting. Confer with directors and production staff to discuss issues such as production and casting problems, budgets, policies, and news coverage. Develop ideas for programs and features that a station could produce. Evaluate new and existing programming to assess suitability and the need for changes, using information such as audience surveys and feedback. Develop promotions for current programs and specials. Perform personnel duties, such as hiring staff and evaluating work performance. Act as a liaison between talent and directors, providing information that performers or guests need to prepare for appearances and communicating relevant information from guests, performers, or staff to directors. Review information about programs and schedules to ensure accuracy and provide such information to local media outlets. Select, acquire, and maintain programs, music, films, and other needed materials and obtain legal clearances for their use as necessary. Operate and maintain on-air and production audio equipment. Develop budgets for programming and broadcasting activities and monitor expenditures to ensure that they remain within budgetary limits. Read news, read or record public service and promotional announcements, or perform other on-air duties. Direct setup of remote facilities and install or cancel programs at remote stations. Conduct interviews for broadcasts. Cue announcers, actors, performers, and guests. Participate in the planning and execution of fundraising activities.Review performer information, such as photos, resumes, voice tapes, videos, and union membership, to decide whom to audition for parts. Read scripts and confer with producers to determine the types and numbers of performers required for a given production. Select performers for roles or submit lists of suitable performers to producers or directors for final selection. Audition and interview performers to match their attributes to specific roles or to increase the pool of available acting talent. Maintain talent files that include information such as performers' specialties, past performances, and availability. Prepare actors for auditions by providing scripts and information about roles and casting requirements. Serve as liaisons between directors, actors, and agents. Attend or view productions to maintain knowledge of available actors. Negotiate contract agreements with performers, with agents, or between performers and agents or production companies. Contact agents and actors to provide notification of audition and performance opportunities and to set up audition times. Hire and supervise workers who help locate people with specified attributes and talents. Arrange for or design screen tests or auditions for prospective performers. Locate performers or extras for crowd and background scenes, and stand-ins or photo doubles for actors, by direct contact or through agents.Supervise and assign duties to workers engaged in technical control and production of radio and television programs. Monitor broadcasts to ensure that programs conform to station or network policies and regulations. Observe pictures through monitors and direct camera and video staff concerning shading and composition. Act as liaisons between engineering and production departments. Test equipment to ensure proper operation. Schedule use of studio and editing facilities for producers and engineering and maintenance staff. Train workers in use of equipment, such as switchers, cameras, monitors, microphones, and lights. Confer with operations directors to formulate and maintain fair and attainable technical policies for programs. Discuss filter options, lens choices, and the visual effects of objects being filmed with photography directors and video operators. Follow instructions from production managers and directors during productions, such as commands for camera cuts, effects, graphics, and takes. Direct technical aspects of newscasts and other productions, checking and switching between video sources and taking responsibility for the on-air product, including camera shots and graphics. Operate equipment to produce programs or broadcast live programs from remote locations. Switch between video sources in a studio or on multi-camera remotes, using equipment such as switchers, video slide projectors, and video effects generators. Set up and execute video transitions and special effects, such as fades, dissolves, cuts, keys, and supers, using computers to manipulate pictures as necessary. Collaborate with promotions directors to produce on-air station promotions.
27-2021| Athletes and Sports Competitors|Attend scheduled practice or training sessions. Participate in athletic events or competitive sports, according to established rules and regulations. Exercise or practice under the direction of athletic trainers or professional coaches to develop skills, improve physical condition, or prepare for competitions. Maintain equipment used in a particular sport. Maintain optimum physical fitness levels by training regularly, following nutrition plans, or consulting with health professionals. Assess performance following athletic competition, identifying strengths and weaknesses and making adjustments to improve future performance. Receive instructions from coaches and other sports staff prior to events, and discuss their performance afterwards. Represent teams or professional sports clubs, performing such activities as meeting with members of the media, making speeches, or participating in charity events. Lead teams by serving as captain.
27-2022| Coaches and Scouts|Provide training direction, encouragement, motivation, and nutritional advice to prepare athletes for games, competitive events, or tours. Plan, organize, and conduct practice sessions. Explain and enforce safety rules and regulations. Plan and direct physical conditioning programs that will enable athletes to achieve maximum performance. Instruct individuals or groups in sports rules, game strategies, and performance principles, such as specific ways of moving the body, hands, or feet, to achieve desired results. Teach instructional courses and advise students. Evaluate athletes' skills and review performance records to determine their fitness and potential in a particular area of athletics. Monitor athletes' use of equipment to ensure safe and proper use. Adjust coaching techniques, based on the strengths and weaknesses of athletes. Keep abreast of changing rules, techniques, technologies, and philosophies relevant to their sport. Develop and arrange competition schedules and programs. Analyze the strengths and weaknesses of opposing teams to develop game strategies. Contact the parents of players to provide information and answer questions. Coordinate travel arrangements and travel with team to away contests. Explain and demonstrate the use of sports and training equipment, such as trampolines or weights. Arrange and conduct sports-related activities, such as training camps, skill-improvement courses, clinics, and pre-season try-outs. Hire, supervise, and work with extended coaching staff. Keep and review paper, computerized, and video records of athlete, team, and opposing team performance. Counsel student athletes on academic, athletic, and personal issues. Select, acquire, store, and issue equipment and other materials as necessary. Perform activities that support a team or a specific sport, such as participating in community outreach activities, meeting with media representatives, and appearing at fundraising events. Monitor the academic eligibility of student athletes. Identify and recruit potential athletes by sending recruitment letters, meeting with recruits, and arranging and offering incentives, such as athletic scholarships. File scouting reports that detail player assessments, provide recommendations on athlete recruitment, and identify locations and individuals to be targeted for future recruitment efforts. Plan strategies and choose team members for individual games or sports seasons. Oversee the development and management of the sports program budget and fundraising activities. Serve as organizer, leader, instructor, or referee for outdoor and indoor games, such as volleyball, football, and soccer.
27-2023| Umpires, Referees, and Other Sports Officials|Officiate at sporting events, games, or competitions, to maintain standards of play and to ensure that game rules are observed. Signal participants or other officials to make them aware of infractions or to otherwise regulate play or competition. Inspect sporting equipment and/or examine participants in order to ensure compliance with event and safety regulations. Keep track of event times, including race times and elapsed time during game segments, starting or stopping play when necessary. Judge performances in sporting competitions in order to award points, impose scoring penalties, and determine results. Start races and competitions. Resolve claims of rule infractions or complaints by participants and assess any necessary penalties, according to regulations. Confer with other sporting officials, coaches, players, and facility managers in order to provide information, coordinate activities, and discuss problems. Direct participants to assigned areas such as starting blocks or penalty areas. Verify scoring calculations before competition winners are announced. Report to regulating organizations regarding sporting activities, complaints made, and actions taken or needed such as fines or other disciplinary actions. Teach and explain the rules and regulations governing a specific sport. Compile scores and other athletic records. Verify credentials of participants in sporting events, and make other qualifying determinations such as starting order or handicap number.
27-2031| Dancers|Train, exercise, and attend dance classes to maintain high levels of technical proficiency, physical ability, and physical fitness. Study and practice dance moves required in roles. Harmonize body movements to rhythm of musical accompaniment. Perform classical, modern, or acrobatic dances in productions, expressing stories, rhythm, and sound with their bodies. Collaborate with choreographers to refine or modify dance steps. Coordinate dancing with that of partners or dance ensembles. Attend costume fittings, photography sessions, and makeup calls associated with dance performances. Audition for dance roles or for membership in dance companies. Develop self-understanding of physical capabilities and limitations, and choose dance styles accordingly. Monitor the field of dance to remain aware of current trends and innovations. Teach dance students. Devise and choreograph dance for self or others. Perform in productions, singing or acting in addition to dancing, if required.
27-2032| Choreographers|Direct rehearsals to instruct dancers in how to use dance steps, and in techniques to achieve desired effects. Read and study story lines and musical scores to determine how to translate ideas and moods into dance movements. Design dances for individual dancers, dance companies, musical theatre, opera, fashion shows, film, television productions and special events, and for dancers ranging from beginners to professionals. Choose the music, sound effects, or spoken narrative to accompany a dance. Advise dancers on how to stand and move properly, teaching correct dance techniques to help prevent injuries. Coordinate production music with music directors. Audition performers for one or more dance parts. Direct and stage dance presentations for various forms of entertainment. Develop ideas for creating dances, keeping notes and sketches to record influences. Train, exercise, and attend dance classes to maintain high levels of technical proficiency, physical ability, and physical fitness. Teach students, dancers, and other performers about rhythm and interpretive movement. Assess students' dancing abilities to determine where improvement or change is needed. Experiment with different types of dancers, steps, dances, and placements, testing ideas informally to get feedback from dancers. Seek influences from other art forms such as theatre, the visual arts, and architecture. Design sets, lighting, costumes, and other artistic elements of productions, in collaboration with cast members. Record dance movements and their technical aspects, using a technical understanding of the patterns and formations of choreography. Re-stage traditional dances and works in dance companies' repertoires, developing new interpretations. Manage dance schools, or assist in their management.
27-2041| Music Directors and Composers|Use gestures to shape the music being played, communicating desired tempo, phrasing, tone, color, pitch, volume, and other performance aspects. Direct groups at rehearsals and live or recorded performances to achieve desired effects such as tonal and harmonic balance dynamics, rhythm, and tempo. Plan and schedule rehearsals and performances, and arrange details such as locations, accompanists, and instrumentalists. Consider such factors as ensemble size and abilities, availability of scores, and the need for musical variety, to select music to be performed. Study scores to learn the music in detail, and to develop interpretations. Position members within groups to obtain balance among instrumental or vocal sections. Confer with clergy to select music for church services. Transcribe musical compositions and melodic lines to adapt them to a particular group, or to create a particular musical style. Audition and select performers for musical presentations. Meet with soloists and concertmasters to discuss and prepare for performances. Assign and review staff work in such areas as scoring, arranging, and copying music, and vocal coaching. Perform administrative tasks such as applying for grants, developing budgets, negotiating contracts, and designing and printing programs and other promotional materials.Apply elements of music theory to create musical and tonal structures, including harmonies and melodies. Use computers and synthesizers to compose, orchestrate, and arrange music. Determine voices, instruments, harmonic structures, rhythms, tempos, and tone balances required to achieve the effects desired in a musical composition. Experiment with different sounds, and types and pieces of music, using synthesizers and computers as necessary to test and evaluate ideas. Write changes directly into compositions, or use computer software to make changes. Transcribe ideas for musical compositions into musical notation, using instruments, pen and paper, or computers. Guide musicians during rehearsals, performances, or recording sessions. Score compositions so that they are consistent with instrumental and vocal capabilities such as ranges and keys, using knowledge of music theory. Write musical scores for orchestras, bands, choral groups, or individual instrumentalists or vocalists, using knowledge of music theory and of instrumental and vocal capabilities. Confer with producers and directors to define the nature and placement of film or television music. Fill in details of orchestral sketches, such as adding vocal parts to scores. Explore and develop musical ideas based on sources such as imagination or sounds in the environment. Write music for commercial mediums, including advertising jingles or film soundtracks. Transpose music from one voice or instrument to another to accommodate particular musicians. Rewrite original musical scores in different musical styles by changing rhythms, harmonies, or tempos. Study original pieces of music to become familiar with them prior to making any changes. Arrange music composed by others, changing the music to achieve desired effects. Accept commissions to create music for special occasions. Study films or scripts to determine how musical scores can be used to create desired effects or moods. Create original musical forms, or write within circumscribed musical forms such as sonatas, symphonies, or operas. Collaborate with other colleagues, such as copyists, to complete final scores. Copy parts from scores for individual performers.
27-2042| Musicians and Singers|Memorize musical selections and routines, or sing following printed text, musical notation, or customer instructions. Sing as a soloist or as a member of a vocal group. Perform before live audiences, or in television, radio, or movie productions. Interpret or modify music, applying knowledge of harmony, melody, rhythm, and voice production to individualize presentations and maintain audience interest. Practice singing exercises and study with vocal coaches to develop voice and skills and to rehearse for upcoming roles. Sing a cappella or with musical accompaniment. Observe choral leaders or prompters for cues or directions in vocal presentation. Make or participate in recordings. Seek out and learn new music suitable for live performance or recording. Compose songs or create vocal arrangements. Collaborate with a manager or agent who handles administrative details, finds work, and negotiates contracts. Learn acting, dancing, and other skills required for dramatic singing roles. Research particular roles to find out more about a character, or the time and place in which a piece is set.Practice musical instrument performances, individually or in rehearsal with other musicians, to master individual pieces of music and to maintain and improve skills. Perform before live audiences. Specialize in playing a specific family of instruments or a particular type of music. Play musical instruments as soloists, or as members or guest artists of musical groups such as orchestras, ensembles, or bands. Play from memory or by following scores. Sight-read musical parts during rehearsals. Audition for orchestras, bands, or other musical groups. Provide the musical background for live shows such as ballets, operas, musical theatre, and cabarets. Transpose music to alternate keys, or to fit individual styles or purposes. Promote their own or their group's music by participating in media interviews and other activities. Make or participate in recordings in music studios. Direct bands or orchestras. Teach music for specific instruments. Compose original music such as popular songs, symphonies, or sonatas.
27-3011| Radio and Television Announcers|Prepare and deliver news, sports, or weather reports, gathering and rewriting material so that it will convey required information and fit specific time slots. Read news flashes to inform audiences of important events. Identify stations, and introduce or close shows, using memorized or read scripts, and/or ad-libs. Select program content, in conjunction with producers and assistants, based on factors such as program specialties, audience tastes, or requests from the public. Study background information to prepare for programs or interviews. Comment on music and other matters, such as weather or traffic conditions. Interview show guests about their lives, their work, or topics of current interest. Discuss various topics over the telephone with viewers or listeners. Host civic, charitable, or promotional events that are broadcast over television or radio. Make promotional appearances at public or private events to represent their employers. Operate control consoles. Announce musical selections, station breaks, commercials, or public service information, and accept requests from listening audience. Keep daily program logs to provide information on all elements aired during broadcast, such as musical selections and station promotions. Record commercials for later broadcast. Locate guests to appear on talk or interview shows. Describe or demonstrate products that viewers may purchase through specific shows or in stores. Coordinate games, contests, or other on-air competitions, performing such duties as asking questions and awarding prizes. Attend press conferences to gather information for broadcast. Provide commentary and conduct interviews during sporting events, parades, conventions, or other events. Give network cues permitting selected stations to receive programs.
27-3012| Public Address System and Other Announcers|Greet attendees and serve as masters of ceremonies at banquets, store openings, and other events. Preview any music intended to be broadcast over the public address system. Inform patrons of coming events at a specific venue. Meet with event directors to review schedules and exchange information about details, such as national anthem performers and starting lineups. Announce programs and player substitutions or other changes to patrons. Read prepared scripts describing acts or tricks presented during performances. Improvise commentary on items of interest, such as background and history of an event or past records of participants. Instruct and calm crowds during emergencies. Learn to pronounce the names of players, coaches, institutional personnel, officials, and other individuals involved in an event. Study the layout of an event venue to be able to give accurate directions in the event of an emergency. Review and announce crowd control procedures before the beginning of each event. Provide running commentaries of event activities, such as play-by-play descriptions or explanations of official decisions. Organize team information, such as statistics and tournament records, to ensure accessibility for use during events.
27-3021| Broadcast News Analysts|Analyze and interpret news and information received from various sources to broadcast the information. Write commentaries, columns, or scripts, using computers. Examine news items of local, national, and international significance to determine topics to address, or obtain assignments from editorial staff members. Coordinate and serve as an anchor on news broadcast programs. Edit news material to ensure that it fits within available time or space. Select material most pertinent to presentation, and organize this material into appropriate formats. Gather information and develop perspectives about news subjects through research, interviews, observation, and experience. Present news stories, and introduce in-depth videotaped segments or live transmissions from on-the-scene reporters.
27-3022| Reporters and Correspondents|Receive assignments or evaluate leads or tips to develop story ideas. Research a story's background information to provide complete and accurate information. Arrange interviews with people who can provide information about a story. Establish and maintain relationships with individuals who are credible sources of information. Report news stories for publication or broadcast, describing the background and details of events. Gather information about events through research, interviews, experience, or attendance at political, news, sports, artistic, social, or other functions. Revise work to meet editorial approval or to fit time or space requirements. Review and evaluate notes taken about news events to isolate pertinent facts and details. Investigate breaking news developments, such as disasters, crimes, or human-interest stories. Review written, audio, or video copy and correct errors in content, grammar, or punctuation, following prescribed editorial style and formatting guidelines. Report on specialized fields such as medicine, green technology, environmental issues, science, politics, sports, arts, consumer affairs, business, religion, crime, or education. Determine a published or broadcasted story's emphasis, length, and format and organize material accordingly. Transmit news stories or reporting information from remote locations, using equipment such as satellite phones, telephones, fax machines, or modems. Check reference materials, such as books, news files, or public records, to obtain relevant facts. Discuss issues with editors to establish priorities or positions. Photograph or videotape news events. Take pictures or video and process them for inclusion in a story. Present live or recorded commentary via broadcast media. Conduct taped or filmed interviews or narratives. Develop ideas or material for columns or commentaries by analyzing and interpreting news, current issues, or personal experiences. Communicate with readers, viewers, advertisers, or the general public via mail, email, or telephone. Write online blog entries that address news developments or offer additional information, opinions, or commentary on news events. Assign stories to other reporters or duties to production staff. Write columns, editorials, commentaries, or reviews that interpret events or offer opinions. Edit or assist in editing videos for broadcast.
27-3031| Public Relations Specialists|Respond to requests for information from the media or designate an appropriate spokesperson or information source. Write press releases or other media communications to promote clients. Establish or maintain cooperative relationships with representatives of community, consumer, employee, or public interest groups. Plan or direct development or communication of programs to maintain favorable public or stockholder perceptions of an organization's accomplishments, agenda, or environmental responsibility. Study the objectives, promotional policies, or needs of organizations to develop public relations strategies that will influence public opinion or promote ideas, products, or services. Coach client representatives in effective communication with the public or with employees. Update and maintain content posted on the Web. Confer with other managers to identify trends or key group interests or concerns or to provide advice on business decisions. Prepare or edit organizational publications, such as employee newsletters or stockholders' reports, for internal or external audiences. Coordinate public responses to environmental management incidents or conflicts. Arrange public appearances, lectures, contests, or exhibits for clients to increase product or service awareness or to promote goodwill. Develop plans or materials to communicate activities undertaken by organizations that are beneficial to the environment, public safety, or other important social issues. Prepare or deliver speeches to further public relations objectives. Confer with production or support personnel to produce or coordinate production of advertisements or promotions. Consult with advertising agencies or staff to arrange promotional campaigns in all types of media for products, organizations, or individuals. Plan or conduct market or public opinion research to test products or determine potential for product success, communicating results to client or management.
27-3041| Editors|Prepare, rewrite and edit copy to improve readability, or supervise others who do this work. Verify facts, dates, and statistics, using standard reference sources. Read copy or proof to detect and correct errors in spelling, punctuation, and syntax. Develop story or content ideas, considering reader or audience appeal. Review and approve proofs submitted by composing room prior to publication production. Supervise and coordinate work of reporters and other editors. Plan the contents of publications according to the publication's style, editorial policy, and publishing requirements. Read, evaluate and edit manuscripts or other materials submitted for publication and confer with authors regarding changes in content, style or organization, or publication. Allocate print space for story text, photos, and illustrations according to space parameters and copy significance, using knowledge of layout principles. Oversee publication production, including artwork, layout, computer typesetting, and printing, ensuring adherence to deadlines and budget requirements. Make manuscript acceptance or revision recommendations to the publisher. Assign topics, events and stories to individual writers or reporters for coverage. Confer with management and editorial staff members regarding placement and emphasis of developing news stories. Meet frequently with artists, typesetters, layout personnel, marketing directors, and production managers to discuss projects and resolve problems. Monitor news-gathering operations to ensure utilization of all news sources, such as press releases, telephone contacts, radio, television, wire services, and other reporters. Select local, state, national, and international news items received from wire services, based on assessment of items' significance and interest value. Interview and hire writers and reporters or negotiate contracts, royalties, and payments for authors or freelancers. Direct the policies and departments of newspapers, magazines and other publishing establishments.
27-3042| Technical Writers|Organize material and complete writing assignment according to set standards regarding order, clarity, conciseness, style, and terminology. Maintain records and files of work and revisions. Edit, standardize, or make changes to material prepared by other writers or establishment personnel. Select photographs, drawings, sketches, diagrams, and charts to illustrate material. Interview production and engineering personnel and read journals and other material to become familiar with product technologies and production methods. Develop or maintain online help documentation. Assist in laying out material for publication. Study drawings, specifications, mockups, and product samples to integrate and delineate technology, operating procedure, and production sequence and detail. Arrange for typing, duplication, and distribution of material. Observe production, developmental, and experimental activities to determine operating procedure and detail. Review manufacturer's and trade catalogs, drawings and other data relative to operation, maintenance, and service of equipment. Analyze developments in specific field to determine need for revisions in previously published materials and development of new material. Draw sketches to illustrate specified materials or assembly sequence. Review published materials and recommend revisions or changes in scope, format, content, and methods of reproduction and binding. Confer with customer representatives, vendors, plant executives, or publisher to establish technical specifications and to determine subject material to be developed for publication.
27-3043| Writers and Authors|Write to customers in their terms and on their level so that the advertiser's sales message is more readily received. Discuss with the client the product, advertising themes and methods, and any changes that should be made in advertising copy. Write advertising copy for use by publication, broadcast, or internet media to promote the sale of goods and services. Present drafts and ideas to clients. Vary language and tone of messages based on product and medium. Consult with sales, media and marketing representatives to obtain information on product or service and discuss style and length of advertising copy. Edit or rewrite existing copy as necessary, and submit copy for approval by supervisor. Develop advertising campaigns for a wide range of clients, working with an advertising agency's creative director and art director to determine the best way to present advertising information. Write articles, bulletins, sales letters, speeches, and other related informative, marketing and promotional material. Conduct research and interviews to determine which of a product's selling features should be promoted. Invent names for products and write the slogans that appear on packaging, brochures and other promotional material. Review advertising trends, consumer surveys, and other data regarding marketing of goods and services to determine the best way to promote products.Revise written material to meet personal standards and to satisfy needs of clients, publishers, directors, or producers. Choose subject matter and suitable form to express personal feelings and experiences or ideas, or to narrate stories or events. Plan project arrangements or outlines, and organize material accordingly. Prepare works in appropriate format for publication, and send them to publishers or producers. Follow appropriate procedures to get copyrights for completed work. Write fiction or nonfiction prose such as short stories, novels, biographies, articles, descriptive or critical analyses, and essays. Develop factors such as themes, plots, characterizations, psychological analyses, historical environments, action, and dialogue, to create material. Confer with clients, editors, publishers, or producers to discuss changes or revisions to written material. Conduct research to obtain factual information and authentic detail, using sources such as newspaper accounts, diaries, and interviews. Write narrative, dramatic, lyric, or other types of poetry for publication. Attend book launches and publicity events, or conduct public readings. Write words to fit musical compositions, including lyrics for operas, musical plays, and choral works. Adapt text to accommodate musical requirements of composers and singers.
27-3091| Interpreters and Translators|Follow ethical codes that protect the confidentiality of information. Translate messages simultaneously or consecutively into specified languages, orally or by using hand signs, maintaining message content, context, and style as much as possible. Listen to speakers' statements to determine meanings and to prepare translations, using electronic listening systems as necessary. Compile terminology and information to be used in translations, including technical terms such as those for legal or medical material. Read written materials, such as legal documents, scientific works, or news reports, and rewrite material into specified languages. Identify and resolve conflicts related to the meanings of words, concepts, practices, or behaviors. Check translations of technical terms and terminology to ensure that they are accurate and remain consistent throughout translation revisions. Refer to reference materials, such as dictionaries, lexicons, encyclopedias, and computerized terminology banks, as needed to ensure translation accuracy. Train and supervise other translators or interpreters. Educate students, parents, staff, and teachers about the roles and functions of educational interpreters. Compile information on content and context of information to be translated and on intended audience. Proofread, edit, and revise translated materials. Check original texts or confer with authors to ensure that translations retain the content, meaning, and feeling of the original material. Discuss translation requirements with clients and determine any fees to be charged for services provided. Adapt translations to students' cognitive and grade levels, collaborating with educational team members as necessary. Adapt software and accompanying technical documents to another language and culture.
27-4011| Audio and Video Equipment Technicians|Install, adjust, and operate electronic equipment to record, edit, and transmit radio and television programs, motion pictures, video conferencing, or multimedia presentations. Diagnose and resolve media system problems. Switch sources of video input from one camera or studio to another, from film to live programming, or from network to local programming. Mix and regulate sound inputs and feeds or coordinate audio feeds with television pictures. Compress, digitize, duplicate, and store audio and video data. Perform minor repairs and routine cleaning of audio and video equipment. Notify supervisors when major equipment repairs are needed. Design layouts of audio and video equipment and perform upgrades and maintenance. Conduct training sessions on selection, use, and design of audio-visual materials and on operation of presentation equipment. Monitor incoming and outgoing pictures and sound feeds to ensure quality and notify directors of any possible problems. Determine formats, approaches, content, levels, and mediums to effectively meet objectives within budgetary constraints, using research, knowledge, and training. Obtain, set up, and load videotapes for scheduled productions or broadcasts. Meet with directors and senior members of camera crews to discuss assignments and determine filming sequences, camera movements, and picture composition. Reserve audio-visual equipment and facilities, such as meeting rooms. Record and edit audio material, such as movie soundtracks, using audio recording and editing equipment. Direct and coordinate activities of assistants and other personnel during production. Control the lights and sound of events, such as live concerts, before and after performances, and during intermissions. Analyze and maintain data logs for audio-visual activities. Maintain inventories of audio and videotapes and related supplies. Inform users of audio and videotaping service policies and procedures. Organize and maintain compliance, license, and warranty information related to audio and video facilities. Construct and position properties, sets, lighting equipment, and other equipment. Perform narration of productions or present announcements. Edit videotapes by erasing and removing portions of programs and adding video or sound as required. Locate and secure settings, properties, effects, and other production necessities. Produce rough and finished graphics and graphic designs.
27-4012| Broadcast Technicians|Monitor strength, clarity, and reliability of incoming and outgoing signals and adjust equipment as necessary to maintain quality broadcasts. Observe monitors and converse with station personnel to determine audio and video levels and to ascertain that programs are airing. Monitor and log transmitter readings. Report equipment problems, ensure that repairs are made, and make emergency repairs to equipment when necessary and possible. Play and record broadcast programs using automation systems. Control audio equipment to regulate the volume and sound quality during radio and television broadcasts. Align antennae with receiving dishes to obtain the clearest signal for transmission of broadcasts from field locations. Maintain programming logs as required by station management and the Federal Communications Commission. Regulate the fidelity, brightness, and contrast of video transmissions, using video console control panels. Select sources from which programming will be received or through which programming will be transmitted. Set up, operate, and maintain broadcast station computers and networks. Schedule programming or read television programming logs to determine which programs are to be recorded or aired. Install broadcast equipment, troubleshoot equipment problems, and perform maintenance or minor repairs, using hand tools. Preview scheduled programs to ensure that signals are functioning and programs are ready for transmission. Substitute programs in cases where signals fail. Prepare reports outlining past and future programs, including content. Record sound onto tape or film for radio or television, checking its quality and making adjustments where necessary. Instruct trainees in how to use television production equipment, how to film events, and how to copy and edit graphics or sound onto videotape. Edit broadcast material electronically, using computers. Give technical directions to other personnel during filming. Make commercial dubs. Develop employee work schedules. Design and modify equipment to employer specifications. Determine the number, type, and approximate location of microphones needed for best sound recording or transmission quality and position them appropriately. Produce graphics for broadcasts. Organize recording sessions and prepare areas, such as radio booths and television stations, for recording. Set up and operate portable field transmission equipment outside the studio. Discuss production requirements with clients. Produce educational and training films and videotapes by performing activities, such as selecting equipment and preparing scripts.
27-4013| Radio Operators|Monitor emergency frequencies to detect distress calls and respond by dispatching emergency equipment. Communicate with receiving operators to exchange transmission instructions. Operate radio equipment to communicate with ships, aircraft, mining crews, offshore oil rigs, logging camps and other remote operations. Broadcast weather reports and warnings. Maintain station logs of messages transmitted and received for activities such as flight testing and fire locations. Conduct periodic equipment inspections and routine tests to ensure that operations standards are met. Turn controls or throw switches to activate power, adjust voice volume and modulation, and set transmitters on specified frequencies. Operate sound-recording equipment to record signals and preserve broadcasts for purposes such as analysis by intelligence personnel. Send, receive, and interpret coded messages. Repair radio equipment as necessary, using electronic testing equipment, hand tools, and power tools. Coordinate radio-related aspects of locating and contacting airplanes and ships that are missing or in distress. Determine and obtain bearings of sources from which signals originate, using direction-finding procedures and equipment. Examine and operate new equipment prior to installation to ensure that it performs properly. Review applicable regulations regarding radio communications, and report violations.
27-4014| Sound Engineering Technicians|Confer with producers, performers, and others to determine and achieve the desired sound for a production, such as a musical recording or a film. Prepare for recording sessions by performing activities such as selecting and setting up microphones. Record speech, music, and other sounds on recording media, using recording equipment. Regulate volume level and sound quality during recording sessions, using control consoles. Separate instruments, vocals, and other sounds, and combine sounds later during the mixing or postproduction stage. Mix and edit voices, music, and taped sound effects for live performances and for prerecorded events, using sound mixing boards. Keep logs of recordings. Report equipment problems and ensure that required repairs are made. Set up, test, and adjust recording equipment for recording sessions and live performances. Synchronize and equalize prerecorded dialogue, music, and sound effects with visual action of motion pictures or television productions, using control consoles. Convert video and audio recordings into digital formats for editing or archiving. Reproduce and duplicate sound recordings from original recording media, using sound editing and duplication equipment. Tear down equipment after event completion.
27-4021| Photographers|Use traditional or digital cameras, along with a variety of equipment such as tripods, filters, and flash attachments. Determine desired images and picture composition, selecting and adjusting subjects, equipment, and lighting to achieve desired effects. Adjust apertures, shutter speeds, and camera focus based on a combination of factors such as lighting, field depth, subject motion, film type, and film speed. Create artificial light, using flashes and reflectors. Manipulate and enhance scanned or digital images to create desired effects, using computers and specialized software. Transfer photographs to computers for editing, archiving, and electronic transmission. Determine project goals, locations, and equipment needs by studying assignments and consulting with clients or advertising staff. Review sets of photographs to select the best work. Perform general office duties such as scheduling appointments, keeping books, and ordering supplies. Estimate or measure light levels, distances, and numbers of exposures needed, using measuring devices and formulas. Test equipment prior to use to ensure that it is in good working order. Set up, mount, or install photographic equipment and cameras. Select and assemble equipment and required background properties, according to subjects, materials, and conditions. Take pictures of individuals, families, and small groups, either in studio or on location. Direct activities of workers who are setting up photographic equipment. Perform maintenance tasks necessary to keep equipment working properly. Produce computer-readable, digital images from film, using flatbed scanners and photofinishing laboratories. Develop and print exposed film, using chemicals, touchup tools, and developing and printing equipment. Enhance, retouch, and resize photographs and negatives, using airbrushing and other techniques. Develop visual aids and charts for use in lectures or to present evidence in court. Load and unload film. Employ a variety of specialized photographic materials and techniques, including infrared and ultraviolet films, macro photography, photogrammetry and sensitometry. Engage in research to develop new photographic procedures and materials. Write photograph captions.
27-4031| Camera Operators, Television, Video, and Motion Picture|Operate television or motion picture cameras to record scenes for television broadcasts, advertising, or motion pictures. Compose and frame each shot, applying the technical aspects of light, lenses, film, filters, and camera settings to achieve the effects sought by directors. Edit video for broadcast productions, including non-linear editing. Adjust positions and controls of cameras, printers, and related equipment to change focus, exposure, and lighting. Confer with directors, sound and lighting technicians, electricians, and other crew members to discuss assignments and determine filming sequences, desired effects, camera movements, and lighting requirements. Set up and perform live shots for broadcast. Set up cameras, optical printers, and related equipment to produce photographs and special effects. Assemble studio sets and select and arrange cameras, film stock, audio, or lighting equipment to be used during filming. Test, clean, maintain, and repair broadcast equipment, including testing microphones, to ensure proper working condition. Use cameras in any of several different camera mounts, such as stationary, track-mounted, or crane-mounted. Observe sets or locations for potential problems and to determine filming and lighting requirements. View films to resolve problems of exposure control, subject and camera movement, changes in subject distance, and related variables. Stay current with new technologies in the field by reading trade magazines. Operate zoom lenses, changing images according to specifications and rehearsal instructions. Download exposed film for shipment to processing labs. Reload camera magazines with fresh raw film stock. Set up and operate electric news gathering (ENG) microwave vehicles to gather and edit raw footage on location to send to television affiliates for broadcast. Instruct camera operators regarding camera setups, angles, distances, movement, and variables and cues for starting and stopping filming. Label and record contents of exposed film and note details on report forms. Direct studio productions. Receive raw film stock and maintain film inventories. Read and analyze work orders and specifications to determine locations of subject material, work procedures, sequences of operations, and machine setups. Read charts and compute ratios to determine variables such as lighting, shutter angles, filter factors, and camera distances. Prepare slates that describe the scenes being filmed. Design graphics for studio productions.
27-4032| Film and Video Editors|Organize and string together raw footage into a continuous whole according to scripts or the instructions of directors and producers. Review assembled films or edited videotapes on screens or monitors to determine if corrections are necessary. Trim film segments to specified lengths and reassemble segments in sequences that present stories with maximum effect. Determine the specific audio and visual effects and music necessary to complete films. Set up and operate computer editing systems, electronic titling systems, video switching equipment, and digital video effects units to produce a final product. Select and combine the most effective shots of each scene to form a logical and smoothly running story. Edit films and videotapes to insert music, dialogue, and sound effects, to arrange films into sequences, and to correct errors, using editing equipment. Cut shot sequences to different angles at specific points in scenes, making each individual cut as fluid and seamless as possible. Mark frames where a particular shot or piece of sound is to begin or end. Verify key numbers and time codes on materials. Record needed sounds or obtain them from sound effects libraries. Review footage sequence by sequence to become familiar with it before assembling it into a final product. Confer with producers and directors concerning layout or editing approaches needed to increase dramatic or entertainment value of productions. Piece sounds together to develop film soundtracks. Supervise and coordinate activities of workers engaged in film editing, assembling, and recording activities. Manipulate plot, score, sound, and graphics to make the parts into a continuous whole, working closely with people in audio, visual, music, optical, or special effects departments. Program computerized graphic effects. Conduct film screenings for directors and members of production staffs. Collaborate with music editors to select appropriate passages of music and develop production scores. Study scripts to become familiar with production concepts and requirements. Develop post-production models for films. Estimate how long audiences watching comedies will laugh at each gag line or situation to space scenes appropriately. Discuss the sound requirements of pictures with sound effects editors.
29-1011| Chiropractors|Evaluate the functioning of the neuromuscularskeletal system and the spine using systems of chiropractic diagnosis. Diagnose health problems by reviewing patients' health and medical histories, questioning, observing, and examining patients and interpreting x-rays. Perform a series of manual adjustments to the spine or other articulations of the body to correct the musculoskeletal system. Obtain and record patients' medical histories. Maintain accurate case histories of patients. Advise patients about recommended courses of treatment. Analyze x-rays to locate the sources of patients' difficulties and to rule out fractures or diseases as sources of problems. Counsel patients about nutrition, exercise, sleeping habits, stress management, or other matters. Consult with or refer patients to appropriate health practitioners when necessary. Recommend and arrange for diagnostic procedures, such as blood chemistry tests, saliva tests, x-rays, or other imaging procedures. Suggest and apply the use of supports such as straps, tapes, bandages, or braces if necessary.
29-1021| Dentists, General|Use masks, gloves, and safety glasses to protect patients and self from infectious diseases. Examine teeth, gums, and related tissues, using dental instruments, x-rays, or other diagnostic equipment, to evaluate dental health, diagnose diseases or abnormalities, and plan appropriate treatments. Administer anesthetics to limit the amount of pain experienced by patients during procedures. Use dental air turbines, hand instruments, dental appliances, or surgical implements. Formulate plan of treatment for patient's teeth and mouth tissue. Diagnose and treat diseases, injuries, or malformations of teeth, gums, or related oral structures and provide preventive or corrective services. Write prescriptions for antibiotics or other medications. Advise or instruct patients regarding preventive dental care, the causes and treatment of dental problems, or oral health care services. Design, make, or fit prosthodontic appliances, such as space maintainers, bridges, or dentures, or write fabrication instructions or prescriptions for denturists or dental technicians. Fill pulp chamber and canal with endodontic materials. Treat exposure of pulp by pulp capping, removal of pulp from pulp chamber, or root canal, using dental instruments. Remove diseased tissue, using surgical instruments. Manage business aspects such as employing or supervising staff or handling paperwork or insurance claims. Analyze or evaluate dental needs to determine changes or trends in patterns of dental disease. Apply fluoride or sealants to teeth. Eliminate irritating margins of fillings and correct occlusions, using dental instruments. Perform oral or periodontal surgery on the jaw or mouth. Plan, organize, or maintain dental health programs. Bleach, clean, or polish teeth to restore natural color. Produce or evaluate dental health educational materials.
29-1022| Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons|Administer general and local anesthetics. Collaborate with other professionals, such as restorative dentists and orthodontists, to plan treatment. Evaluate the position of the wisdom teeth to determine whether problems exist currently or might occur in the future. Perform surgery to prepare the mouth for dental implants, and to aid in the regeneration of deficient bone and gum tissues. Remove impacted, damaged, and non-restorable teeth. Treat infections of the oral cavity, salivary glands, jaws, and neck. Remove tumors and other abnormal growths of the oral and facial regions, using surgical instruments. Provide emergency treatment of facial injuries including facial lacerations, intra-oral lacerations, and fractured facial bones. Treat problems affecting the oral mucosa, such as mouth ulcers and infections. Restore form and function by moving skin, bone, nerves, and other tissues from other parts of the body to reconstruct the jaws and face. Perform surgery on the mouth and jaws to treat conditions such as cleft lip and palate and jaw growth problems.
29-1023| Orthodontists|Study diagnostic records, such as medical or dental histories, plaster models of the teeth, photos of a patient's face and teeth, and X-rays, to develop patient treatment plans. Adjust dental appliances to produce and maintain normal function. Fit dental appliances in patients' mouths to alter the position and relationship of teeth and jaws or to realign teeth. Diagnose teeth and jaw or other dental-facial abnormalities. Examine patients to assess abnormalities of jaw development, tooth position, and other dental-facial structures. Provide patients with proposed treatment plans and cost estimates. Instruct dental officers and technical assistants in orthodontic procedures and techniques. Prepare diagnostic and treatment records. Design and fabricate appliances, such as space maintainers, retainers, and labial and lingual arch wires. Coordinate orthodontic services with other dental and medical services.
29-1024| Prosthodontists|Measure and take impressions of patients' jaws and teeth to determine the shape and size of dental prostheses, using face bows, dental articulators, recording devices, and other materials. Replace missing teeth and associated oral structures with permanent fixtures, such as implant-supported prostheses, crowns and bridges, or removable fixtures, such as dentures. Design and fabricate dental prostheses, or supervise dental technicians and laboratory bench workers who construct the devices. Fit prostheses to patients, making any necessary adjustments and modifications. Restore function and aesthetics to traumatic injury victims, or to individuals with diseases or birth defects. Collaborate with general dentists, specialists, and other health professionals to develop solutions to dental and oral health concerns. Repair, reline, or rebase dentures. Place veneers onto teeth to conceal defects. Use bonding technology on the surface of the teeth to change tooth shape or to close gaps. Treat facial pain and jaw joint problems. Bleach discolored teeth to brighten and whiten them.
29-1031| Dietitians and Nutritionists|Monitor food service operations to ensure conformance to nutritional, safety, sanitation and quality standards. Assess nutritional needs, diet restrictions and current health plans to develop and implement dietary-care plans and provide nutritional counseling. Advise patients and their families on nutritional principles, dietary plans and diet modifications, and food selection and preparation. Counsel individuals and groups on basic rules of good nutrition, healthy eating habits, and nutrition monitoring to improve their quality of life. Consult with physicians and health care personnel to determine nutritional needs and diet restrictions of patient or client. Plan, conduct, and evaluate dietary, nutritional, and epidemiological research. Write research reports and other publications to document and communicate research findings. Purchase food in accordance with health and safety codes. Manage quantity food service departments or clinical and community nutrition services. Coordinate diet counseling services. Make recommendations regarding public policy, such as nutrition labeling, food fortification, and nutrition standards for school programs. Inspect meals served for conformance to prescribed diets and standards of palatability and appearance. Select, train and supervise workers who plan, prepare and serve meals. Organize, develop, analyze, test, and prepare special meals such as low-fat, low-cholesterol and chemical-free meals. Prepare and administer budgets for food, equipment and supplies. Plan and prepare grant proposals to request program funding. Develop curriculum and prepare manuals, visual aids, course outlines, and other materials used in teaching. Advise food service managers and organizations on sanitation, safety procedures, menu development, budgeting, and planning to assist with the establishment, operation, and evaluation of food service facilities and nutrition programs. Plan and conduct training programs in dietetics, nutrition, and institutional management and administration for medical students, health-care personnel and the general public. Develop policies for food service or nutritional programs to assist in health promotion and disease control. Coordinate recipe development and standardization and develop new menus for independent food service operations. Confer with design, building, and equipment personnel to plan for construction and remodeling of food service units.
29-1041| Optometrists|Examine eyes, using observation, instruments and pharmaceutical agents, to determine visual acuity and perception, focus and coordination and to diagnose diseases and other abnormalities such as glaucoma or color blindness. Prescribe, supply, fit and adjust eyeglasses, contact lenses and other vision aids. Analyze test results and develop a treatment plan. Prescribe medications to treat eye diseases if state laws permit. Remove foreign bodies from the eye. Prescribe therapeutic procedures to correct or conserve vision. Educate and counsel patients on contact lens care, visual hygiene, lighting arrangements and safety factors. Consult with and refer patients to ophthalmologist or other health care practitioner if additional medical treatment is determined necessary. Provide patients undergoing eye surgeries, such as cataract and laser vision correction, with pre- and post-operative care. Provide vision therapy and low vision rehabilitation.
29-1051| Pharmacists|Review prescriptions to assure accuracy, to ascertain the needed ingredients, and to evaluate their suitability. Provide information and advice regarding drug interactions, side effects, dosage, and proper medication storage. Maintain records, such as pharmacy files, patient profiles, charge system files, inventories, control records for radioactive nuclei, or registries of poisons, narcotics, or controlled drugs. Plan, implement, or maintain procedures for mixing, packaging, or labeling pharmaceuticals, according to policy and legal requirements, to ensure quality, security, and proper disposal. Assess the identity, strength, or purity of medications. Collaborate with other health care professionals to plan, monitor, review, or evaluate the quality or effectiveness of drugs or drug regimens, providing advice on drug applications or characteristics. Order and purchase pharmaceutical supplies, medical supplies, or drugs, maintaining stock and storing and handling it properly. Analyze prescribing trends to monitor patient compliance and to prevent excessive usage or harmful interactions. Advise customers on the selection of medication brands, medical equipment, or healthcare supplies. Compound and dispense medications as prescribed by doctors and dentists, by calculating, weighing, measuring, and mixing ingredients, or oversee these activities. Manage pharmacy operations, hiring or supervising staff, performing administrative duties, or buying or selling non-pharmaceutical merchandise. Provide specialized services to help patients manage conditions such as diabetes, asthma, smoking cessation, or high blood pressure. Offer health promotion or prevention activities, such as training people to use blood pressure devices or diabetes monitors. Contact insurance companies to resolve billing issues. Teach pharmacy students serving as interns in preparation for their graduation or licensure. Refer patients to other health professionals or agencies when appropriate. Work in hospitals or clinics or for Health Management Organizations (HMOs), dispensing prescriptions, serving as a medical team consultant, or specializing in specific drug therapy areas, such as oncology or nuclear pharmacotherapy. Prepare sterile solutions or infusions for use in surgical procedures, emergency rooms, or patients' homes. Update or troubleshoot pharmacy information databases. Publish educational information for other pharmacists, doctors, or patients.
29-1061| Anesthesiologists|Monitor patient before, during, and after anesthesia and counteract adverse reactions or complications. Record type and amount of anesthesia and patient condition throughout procedure. Provide and maintain life support and airway management and help prepare patients for emergency surgery. Administer anesthetic or sedation during medical procedures, using local, intravenous, spinal, or caudal methods. Examine patient, obtain medical history, and use diagnostic tests to determine risk during surgical, obstetrical, and other medical procedures. Position patient on operating table to maximize patient comfort and surgical accessibility. Coordinate administration of anesthetics with surgeons during operation. Decide when patients have recovered or stabilized enough to be sent to another room or ward or to be sent home following outpatient surgery. Confer with other medical professionals to determine type and method of anesthetic or sedation to render patient insensible to pain. Order laboratory tests, x-rays, and other diagnostic procedures. Inform students and staff of types and methods of anesthesia administration, signs of complications, and emergency methods to counteract reactions. Provide medical care and consultation in many settings, prescribing medication and treatment and referring patients for surgery. Manage anesthesiological services, coordinating them with other medical activities and formulating plans and procedures. Diagnose illnesses, using examinations, tests, and reports. Coordinate and direct work of nurses, medical technicians, and other health care providers. Instruct individuals and groups on ways to preserve health and prevent disease. Schedule and maintain use of surgical suite, including operating, wash-up, waiting rooms, and anesthetic and sterilizing equipment. Conduct medical research to aid in controlling and curing disease, to investigate new medications, and to develop and test new medical techniques.
29-1062| Family and General Practitioners|Prescribe or administer treatment, therapy, medication, vaccination, and other specialized medical care to treat or prevent illness, disease, or injury. Order, perform, and interpret tests and analyze records, reports, and examination information to diagnose patients' condition. Collect, record, and maintain patient information, such as medical history, reports, and examination results. Monitor patients' conditions and progress and reevaluate treatments as necessary. Explain procedures and discuss test results or prescribed treatments with patients. Advise patients and community members concerning diet, activity, hygiene, and disease prevention. Refer patients to medical specialists or other practitioners when necessary. Coordinate work with nurses, social workers, rehabilitation therapists, pharmacists, psychologists, and other health care providers. Direct and coordinate activities of nurses, students, assistants, specialists, therapists, and other medical staff. Plan, implement, or administer health programs or standards in hospitals, businesses, or communities for prevention or treatment of injury or illness. Deliver babies. Operate on patients to remove, repair, or improve functioning of diseased or injured body parts and systems. Train residents, medical students, and other health care professionals. Prepare government or organizational reports which include birth, death, and disease statistics, workforce evaluations, or medical status of individuals.
29-1063| Internists, General|Treat internal disorders, such as hypertension, heart disease, diabetes, and problems of the lung, brain, kidney, and gastrointestinal tract. Prescribe or administer medication, therapy, and other specialized medical care to treat or prevent illness, disease, or injury. Explain procedures and discuss test results or prescribed treatments with patients. Manage and treat common health problems, such as infections, influenza and pneumonia, as well as serious, chronic, and complex illnesses, in adolescents, adults, and the elderly. Analyze records, reports, test results, or examination information to diagnose medical condition of patient. Provide and manage long-term, comprehensive medical care, including diagnosis and nonsurgical treatment of diseases, for adult patients in an office or hospital. Collect, record, and maintain patient information, such as medical history, reports, and examination results. Make diagnoses when different illnesses occur together or in situations where the diagnosis may be obscure. Monitor patients' conditions and progress and reevaluate treatments as necessary. Advise patients and community members concerning diet, activity, hygiene, and disease prevention. Immunize patients to protect them from preventable diseases. Refer patient to medical specialist or other practitioner when necessary. Advise surgeon of a patient's risk status and recommend appropriate intervention to minimize risk. Provide consulting services to other doctors caring for patients with special or difficult problems. Direct and coordinate activities of nurses, students, assistants, specialists, therapists, and other medical staff. Prepare government or organizational reports on birth, death, and disease statistics, workforce evaluations, or the medical status of individuals. Operate on patients to remove, repair, or improve functioning of diseased or injured body parts and systems. Plan, implement, or administer health programs in hospitals, businesses, or communities for prevention and treatment of injuries or illnesses. Conduct research to develop or test medications, treatments, or procedures to prevent or control disease or injury.
29-1064| Obstetricians and Gynecologists|Collect, record, and maintain patient information, such as medical histories, reports, and examination results. Treat diseases of female organs. Care for and treat women during prenatal, natal, and postnatal periods. Prescribe or administer therapy, medication, and other specialized medical care to treat or prevent illness, disease, or injury. Perform cesarean sections or other surgical procedures as needed to preserve patients' health and deliver babies safely. Analyze records, reports, test results, or examination information to diagnose medical condition of patient. Explain procedures and discuss test results or prescribed treatments with patients. Monitor patients' conditions and progress and reevaluate treatments as necessary. Advise patients and community members concerning diet, activity, hygiene, and disease prevention. Refer patient to medical specialist or other practitioner when necessary. Direct and coordinate activities of nurses, students, assistants, specialists, therapists, and other medical staff. Consult with or provide consulting services to other physicians. Plan, implement, or administer health programs in hospitals, businesses, or communities for prevention and treatment of injuries or illnesses. Prepare government and organizational reports on birth, death, and disease statistics, workforce evaluations, or the medical status of individuals. Conduct research to develop or test medications, treatments, or procedures to prevent or control disease or injury.
29-1065| Pediatricians, General|Examine children regularly to assess their growth and development. Treat children who have minor illnesses, acute and chronic health problems, and growth and development concerns. Collect, record, and maintain patient information, such as medical history, reports, and examination results. Prescribe or administer treatment, therapy, medication, vaccination, and other specialized medical care to treat or prevent illness, disease, or injury in infants and children. Examine patients or order, perform, and interpret diagnostic tests to obtain information on medical condition and determine diagnosis. Advise patients, parents or guardians, and community members concerning diet, activity, hygiene, and disease prevention. Explain procedures and discuss test results or prescribed treatments with patients and parents or guardians. Monitor patients' conditions and progress and reevaluate treatments as necessary. Plan and execute medical care programs to aid in the mental and physical growth and development of children and adolescents. Direct and coordinate activities of nurses, students, assistants, specialists, therapists, and other medical staff. Refer patient to medical specialist or other practitioner when necessary. Provide consulting services to other physicians. Operate on patients to remove, repair, or improve functioning of diseased or injured body parts and systems. Conduct research to study anatomy and develop or test medications, treatments, or procedures to prevent or control disease or injury. Plan, implement, or administer health programs or standards in hospitals, businesses, or communities for prevention or treatment of injury or illness. Prepare government or organizational reports of birth, death, and disease statistics, workforce evaluations, or medical status of individuals.
29-1066| Psychiatrists|Prescribe, direct, or administer psychotherapeutic treatments or medications to treat mental, emotional, or behavioral disorders. Gather and maintain patient information and records, including social or medical history obtained from patients, relatives, or other professionals. Design individualized care plans, using a variety of treatments. Collaborate with physicians, psychologists, social workers, psychiatric nurses, or other professionals to discuss treatment plans and progress. Analyze and evaluate patient data or test findings to diagnose nature or extent of mental disorder. Examine or conduct laboratory or diagnostic tests on patients to provide information on general physical condition or mental disorder. Counsel outpatients or other patients during office visits. Advise or inform guardians, relatives, or significant others of patients' conditions or treatment. Teach, take continuing education classes, attend conferences or seminars, or conduct research and publish findings to increase understanding of mental, emotional, or behavioral states or disorders. Review and evaluate treatment procedures and outcomes of other psychiatrists or medical professionals. Prepare and submit case reports or summaries to government or mental health agencies.
29-1067| Surgeons|Follow established surgical techniques during the operation. Examine patient to obtain information on medical condition and surgical risk. Operate on patients to correct deformities, repair injuries, prevent and treat diseases, or improve or restore patients' functions. Analyze patient's medical history, medication allergies, physical condition, and examination results to verify operation's necessity and to determine best procedure. Prescribe preoperative and postoperative treatments and procedures, such as sedatives, diets, antibiotics, and preparation and treatment of the patient's operative area. Diagnose bodily disorders and orthopedic conditions and provide treatments, such as medicines and surgeries, in clinics, hospital wards, and operating rooms. Provide consultation and surgical assistance to other physicians and surgeons. Direct and coordinate activities of nurses, assistants, specialists, residents, and other medical staff. Refer patient to medical specialist or other practitioners when necessary. Prepare case histories. Manage surgery services, including planning, scheduling and coordination, determination of procedures, and procurement of supplies and equipment. Examine instruments, equipment, and operating room to ensure sterility. Conduct research to develop and test surgical techniques that can improve operating procedures and outcomes.
29-1069| Physicians and Surgeons, All Other|Diagnose or treat allergic or immunologic conditions. Order or perform diagnostic tests such as skin pricks and intradermal, patch, or delayed hypersensitivity tests. Educate patients about diagnoses, prognoses, or treatments. Develop individualized treatment plans for patients, considering patient preferences, clinical data, or the risks and benefits of therapies. Prescribe medication such as antihistamines, antibiotics, and nasal, oral, topical, or inhaled glucocorticosteroids. Document patients' medical histories. Conduct physical examinations of patients. Assess the risks and benefits of therapies for allergic and immunologic disorders. Interpret diagnostic test results to make appropriate differential diagnoses. Provide therapies, such as allergen immunotherapy and immunoglobin therapy, to treat immune conditions. Coordinate the care of patients with other health care professionals or support staff. Engage in self-directed learning and continuing education activities. Perform allergen provocation tests such as nasal, conjunctival, bronchial, oral, food, and medication challenges. Provide allergy or immunology consultation or education to physicians or other health care providers. Conduct laboratory or clinical research on allergy or immunology topics.Diagnose and treat pigmented lesions such as common acquired nevi, congenital nevi, dysplastic nevi, Spitz nevi, blue nevi, and melanoma. Conduct complete skin examinations. Counsel patients on topics such as the need for annual dermatologic screenings, sun protection, skin cancer awareness, or skin and lymph node self-examinations. Record patients' health histories. Diagnose and treat skin conditions such as acne, dandruff, athlete's foot, moles, psoriasis, and skin cancer. Perform incisional biopsies to diagnose melanoma. Perform skin surgery to improve appearance, make early diagnoses, or control diseases such as skin cancer. Prescribe hormonal agents or topical treatments such as contraceptives, spironolactone, antiandrogens, oral corticosteroids, retinoids, benzoyl peroxide, and antibiotics. Recommend diagnostic tests based on patients' histories and physical examination findings. Provide dermatologic consultation to other health professionals. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, and participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in dermatology. Refer patients to other specialists, as needed. Conduct or order diagnostic tests such as chest radiographs (x-rays), microbiologic tests, and endocrinologic tests. Provide therapies such as intralesional steroids, chemical peels, and comodo removal to treat age spots, sun damage, rough skin, discolored skin, or oily skin. Evaluate patients to determine eligibility for cosmetic procedures such as liposuction, laser resurfacing, and microdermabrasion. Instruct interns or residents in diagnosis and treatment of dermatological diseases. Provide liposuction treatment to patients. Provide dermabrasion or laser abrasion to treat atrophic scars, elevated scars, or other skin conditions. Conduct clinical or basic research.Diagnose, treat, or provide continuous care to hospital inpatients. Prescribe medications or treatment regimens to hospital inpatients. Admit patients for hospital stays. Order or interpret the results of tests such as laboratory tests and radiographs (x-rays). Conduct discharge planning and discharge patients. Refer patients to medical specialists, social services or other professionals as appropriate. Write patient discharge summaries and send them to primary care physicians. Attend inpatient consultations in areas of specialty. Communicate with patients' primary care physicians upon admission, when treatment plans change, or at discharge to maintain continuity and quality of care. Participate in continuing education activities to maintain or enhance knowledge and skills. Direct the operations of short stay or specialty units. Direct, coordinate, or supervise the patient care activities of nursing or support staff. Train or supervise medical students, residents, or other health professionals.Interview patients to obtain information such as complaints, symptoms, medical histories, and family histories. Examine patients to obtain information about functional status of areas such as vision, physical strength, coordination, reflexes, sensations, language skills, cognitive abilities, and mental status. Perform or interpret the outcomes of procedures or diagnostic tests such as lumbar punctures, electroencephalography, electromyography, and nerve conduction velocity tests. Order or interpret results of laboratory analyses of patients' blood or cerebrospinal fluid. Diagnose neurological conditions based on interpretation of examination findings, histories, or test results. Prescribe or administer medications, such as anti-epileptic drugs, and monitor patients for behavioral and cognitive side effects. Identify and treat major neurological system diseases and disorders such as central nervous system infection, cranio spinal trauma, dementia, and stroke. Develop treatment plans based on diagnoses and on evaluation of factors such as age and general health, or procedural risks and costs. Inform patients or families of neurological diagnoses and prognoses, or benefits, risks and costs of various treatment plans. Prepare, maintain, or review records that include patients' histories, neurological examination findings, treatment plans, or outcomes. Communicate with other health care professionals regarding patients' conditions and care. Counsel patients or others on the background of neurological disorders including risk factors, or genetic or environmental concerns. Interpret the results of neuroimaging studies such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT), and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans. Determine brain death using accepted tests and procedures. Coordinate neurological services with other health care team activities. Refer patients to other health care practitioners as necessary. Advise other physicians on the treatment of neurological problems. Participate in continuing education activities to maintain and expand competence. Order supportive care services such as physical therapy, specialized nursing care, and social services. Provide training to medical students or staff members. Supervise medical technicians in the performance of neurological diagnostic or therapeutic activities. Participate in neuroscience research activities. Perform specialized treatments in areas such as sleep disorders, neuroimmunology, neuro-oncology, behavioral neurology, and neurogenetics. Prescribe or administer treatments such as transcranial magnetic stimulation, vagus nerve stimulation, and deep brain stimulation.Prepare comprehensive interpretive reports of findings. Check and approve the quality of diagnostic images before patients are discharged. Establish and enforce radiation protection standards for patients and staff. Interpret imaging data and confer with other medical specialists to formulate diagnoses. Prescribe radionuclides and dosages to be administered to individual patients. Review procedure requests and patients' medical histories to determine applicability of procedures and radioisotopes to be used. Direct nuclear medicine technologists or technicians regarding desired dosages, techniques, positions, and projections. Determine appropriate tests or protocols based on patients' needs or conditions. Compare nuclear medicine procedures with other types of procedures such as computed tomography, ultrasonography, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging, and angiography. Monitor handling of radioactive materials to ensure that established procedures are followed. Monitor quality control of radionuclide preparation, administration, or disposition ensuring that activities comply with applicable regulations and standards. Advise other physicians of the clinical indications, limitations, assessments, or risks of diagnostic and therapeutic applications of radioactive materials. Perform cardiovascular nuclear medicine procedures such as exercise testing and pharmacologic stress testing. Administer radioisotopes to clinical patients or research subjects. Interview and physically examine patients prior to testing. Calculate, measure, or prepare radioisotope dosages. Teach nuclear medicine, diagnostic radiology, or other specialties at graduate educational level. Consult with patients following radiation treatments to provide information and assess outcomes or to recommend further consultation or treatments as appropriate. Test dosage evaluation instruments and survey meters to ensure they are operating properly. Monitor cleanup of radioactive spills to ensure that proper procedures are followed and that decontamination activities are conducted. Formulate plans and procedures for nuclear medicine departments. Direct the safe management and disposal of radioactive substances. Provide advice on the selection of nuclear medicine supplies or equipment. Schedule examinations and staff activities.Perform ophthalmic surgeries such as cataract, glaucoma, refractive, corneal, vitro-retinal, eye muscle, and oculoplastic surgeries. Perform comprehensive examinations of the visual system to determine the nature or extent of ocular disorders. Diagnose or treat injuries, disorders, or diseases of the eye and eye structures including the cornea, sclera, conjunctiva, or eyelids. Document or evaluate patients' medical histories. Provide or direct the provision of postoperative care. Perform, order, or interpret the results of diagnostic or clinical tests. Develop treatment plans based on patients' histories and goals, the nature and severity of disorders, and treatment risks and benefits. Prescribe or administer topical or systemic medications to treat ophthalmic conditions and to manage pain. Perform laser surgeries to alter, remove, reshape, or replace ocular tissue. Provide ophthalmic consultation to other medical professionals. Educate patients about maintenance and promotion of healthy vision. Collaborate with multidisciplinary teams of health professionals to provide optimal patient care. Refer patients for more specialized treatments when conditions exceed the experience, expertise, or scope of practice of practitioner. Develop or implement plans and procedures for ophthalmologic services. Instruct interns, residents, or others in ophthalmologic procedures and techniques. Prescribe ophthalmologic treatments or therapies such as chemotherapy, cryotherapy, and low vision therapy. Prescribe corrective lenses such as glasses and contact lenses. Conduct clinical or laboratory-based research in ophthalmology.Examine microscopic samples to identify diseases or other abnormalities. Diagnose diseases or study medical conditions using techniques such as gross pathology, histology, cytology, cytopathology, clinical chemistry, immunology, flow cytometry, and molecular biology. Write pathology reports summarizing analyses, results, and conclusions. Identify the etiology, pathogenesis, morphological change, and clinical significance of diseases. Analyze and interpret results from tests such as microbial or parasite tests, urine analyses, hormonal assays, fine needle aspirations (FNAs), and polymerase chain reactions (PCRs). Communicate pathologic findings to surgeons or other physicians. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, or participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in pathology. Consult with physicians about ordering and interpreting tests or providing treatments. Plan and supervise the work of the pathology staff, residents or visiting pathologists. Review cases by analyzing autopsies, laboratory findings, or case investigation reports. Educate physicians, students, and other personnel in medical laboratory professions such as medical technology, cytotechnology, and histotechnology. Manage medical laboratories. Develop or adopt new tests or instruments to improve diagnosis of diseases. Diagnose infections, such as Hepatitis B and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), by conducting tests to detect the antibodies that patients' immune systems make to fight such infections. Conduct genetic analyses of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or chromosomes to diagnose small biopsies and cell samples. Obtain specimens by performing procedures such as biopsies and fine need aspirations (FNAs) of superficial nodules. Conduct research and present scientific findings. Perform autopsies to determine causes of deaths.Document examination results, treatment plans, and patients' outcomes. Examine patients to assess mobility, strength, communication, or cognition. Assess characteristics of patients' pain such as intensity, location, and duration using standardized clinical measures. Provide inpatient or outpatient medical management of neuromuscular disorders, musculoskeletal trauma, acute and chronic pain, deformity or amputation, cardiac or pulmonary disease, or other disabling conditions. Monitor effectiveness of pain management interventions such as medication and spinal injections. Develop comprehensive plans for immediate and long-term rehabilitation including therapeutic exercise; speech and occupational therapy; counseling; cognitive retraining; patient, family or caregiver education; or community reintegration. Coordinate physical medicine and rehabilitation services with other medical activities. Perform electrodiagnosis including electromyography, nerve conduction studies, or somatosensory evoked potentials of neuromuscular disorders or damage. Prescribe physical therapy to relax the muscles and improve strength. Consult or coordinate with other rehabilitative professionals including physical and occupational therapists, rehabilitation nurses, speech pathologists, neuropsychologists, behavioral psychologists, social workers, or medical technicians. Prescribe therapy services, such as electrotherapy, ultrasonography, heat or cold therapy, hydrotherapy, debridement, short-wave or microwave diathermy, and infrared or ultraviolet radiation, to enhance rehabilitation. Instruct interns and residents in the diagnosis and treatment of temporary or permanent physically disabling conditions. Diagnose or treat performance-related conditions such as sports injuries or repetitive motion injuries. Prescribe orthotic and prosthetic applications and adaptive equipment, such as wheelchairs, bracing, and communication devices, to maximize patient function and self-sufficiency. Conduct physical tests such as functional capacity evaluations to determine injured workers' capabilities to perform the physical demands of their jobs.Supervise or coordinate the work of physicians, nurses, statisticians, or other professional staff members. Identify groups at risk for specific preventable diseases or injuries. Design or use surveillance tools, such as screening, lab reports, and vital records, to identify health risks. Teach or train medical staff regarding preventive medicine issues. Evaluate the effectiveness of prescribed risk reduction measures or other interventions. Coordinate or integrate the resources of health care institutions, social service agencies, public safety workers, or other organizations to improve the community health. Prepare preventive health reports including problem descriptions, analyses, alternative solutions, and recommendations. Develop or implement interventions to address behavioral causes of diseases. Design, implement, or evaluate health service delivery systems to improve the health of targeted populations. Perform epidemiological investigations of acute and chronic diseases. Provide information about potential health hazards and possible interventions to the media, the public, other health care professionals, or local, state, and federal health authorities. Direct public health education programs dealing with topics such as preventable diseases, injuries, nutrition, food service sanitation, water supply safety, sewage and waste disposal, insect control, and immunizations. Direct or manage prevention programs in specialty areas such as aerospace, occupational, infectious disease, and environmental medicine. Deliver presentations to lay or professional audiences. Document or review comprehensive patients' histories with an emphasis on occupation or environmental risks.Obtain patients' histories from electronic records, patient interviews, dictated reports, or by communicating with referring clinicians. Prepare comprehensive interpretive reports of findings. Perform or interpret the outcomes of diagnostic imaging procedures including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computer tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET), nuclear cardiology treadmill studies, mammography, or ultrasound. Review or transmit images and information using picture archiving or communications systems. Communicate examination results or diagnostic information to referring physicians, patients, or families. Evaluate medical information to determine patients' risk factors, such as allergies to contrast agents, or to make decisions regarding the appropriateness of procedures. Provide counseling to radiologic patients to explain the processes, risks, benefits, or alternative treatments. Instruct radiologic staff in desired techniques, positions, or projections. Confer with medical professionals regarding image-based diagnoses. Coordinate radiological services with other medical activities. Document the performance, interpretation, or outcomes of all procedures performed. Establish or enforce standards for protection of patients or personnel. Develop or monitor procedures to ensure adequate quality control of images. Recognize or treat complications during and after procedures, including blood pressure problems, pain, oversedation, or bleeding. Administer radiopaque substances by injection, orally, or as enemas to render internal structures and organs visible on x-ray films or fluoroscopic screens. Participate in continuing education activities to maintain and develop expertise. Participate in quality improvement activities including discussions of areas where risk of error is high. Supervise and teach residents or medical students. Implement protocols in areas such as drugs, resuscitation, emergencies, power failures, and infection control. Schedule examinations and assign radiologic personnel. Provide advice on types or quantities of radiology equipment needed to maintain facilities. Participate in research projects involving radiology. Perform interventional procedures such as image-guided biopsy, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, transhepatic biliary drainage, and nephrostomy catheter placement. Administer or maintain conscious sedation during and after procedures. Interpret images using computer-aided detection or diagnosis systems. Serve as an offsite teleradiologist for facilities that do not have on-site radiologists. Develop treatment plans for radiology patients. Treat malignant internal or external growths by exposure to radiation from radiographs (x-rays), high energy sources, or natural or synthetic radioisotopes. Conduct physical examinations to inform decisions about appropriate procedures.Diagnose or treat disorders of the musculoskeletal system. Order and interpret the results of laboratory tests and diagnostic imaging procedures. Advise against injured athletes returning to games or competition if resuming activity could lead to further injury. Record athletes' medical care information and maintain medical records. Record athletes' medical histories and perform physical examinations. Examine and evaluate athletes prior to participation in sports activities to determine level of physical fitness or predisposition to injuries. Coordinate sports care activities with other experts including specialty physicians and surgeons, athletic trainers, physical therapists, or coaches. Provide education and counseling on illness and injury prevention. Participate in continuing education activities to improve and maintain knowledge and skills. Advise athletes, trainers, or coaches to alter or cease sports practices that are potentially harmful. Inform coaches, trainers, or other interested parties regarding the medical conditions of athletes. Examine, evaluate and treat athletes who have been injured or who have medical problems such as exercise-induced asthma. Supervise the rehabilitation of injured athletes. Refer athletes for specialized consultation, physical therapy, or diagnostic testing. Prescribe medications for the treatment of athletic-related injuries. Inform athletes about nutrition, hydration, dietary supplements, or uses and possible consequences of medication. Develop and test procedures for dealing with emergencies during practices or competitions. Attend games and competitions to provide evaluation and treatment of activity-related injuries or medical conditions. Advise coaches, trainers, or physical therapists on the proper use of exercises and other therapeutic techniques and alert them to potentially dangerous practices. Observe and evaluate athletes' mental well-being. Select and prepare medical equipment or medications to be taken to athletic competition sites. Conduct research in the prevention or treatment of injuries or medical conditions related to sports and exercise. Prescribe orthotics, prosthetics, and adaptive equipment. Evaluate and manage chronic pain conditions. Develop and prescribe exercise programs such as off-season conditioning regimens. Provide coaches and therapists with assistance in selecting and fitting protective equipment.Diagnose or treat diseases or disorders of genitourinary organs and tracts including erectile dysfunction (ED), infertility, incontinence, bladder cancer, prostate cancer, urethral stones, or premature ejaculation. Document or review patients' histories. Order and interpret the results of diagnostic tests, such as prostate specific antigen (PSA) screening, to detect prostate cancer. Perform abdominal, pelvic, or retroperitoneal surgeries. Examine patients using equipment, such as radiograph (x-ray) machines and fluoroscopes, to determine the nature and extent of disorder or injury. Treat lower urinary tract dysfunctions using equipment such as diathermy machines, catheters, cystoscopes, and radium emanation tubes. Prescribe or administer antibiotics, antiseptics, or compresses to treat infection or injury. Provide urology consultation to physicians or other health care professionals. Treat urologic disorders using alternatives to traditional surgery such as extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, laparoscopy, and laser techniques. Direct the work of nurses, residents, or other staff to provide patient care. Refer patients to specialists when condition exceeds experience, expertise, or scope of practice. Perform brachytherapy, cryotherapy, high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), or photodynamic therapy to treat prostate or other cancers. Teach or train medical and clinical staff. Prescribe medications to treat patients with erectile dysfunction (ED), infertility, or ejaculation problems.
29-1071| Physician Assistants|Examine patients to obtain information about their physical condition. Make tentative diagnoses and decisions about management and treatment of patients. Prescribe therapy or medication with physician approval. Administer or order diagnostic tests, such as x-ray, electrocardiogram, and laboratory tests. Interpret diagnostic test results for deviations from normal. Obtain, compile and record patient medical data, including health history, progress notes and results of physical examination. Instruct and counsel patients about prescribed therapeutic regimens, normal growth and development, family planning, emotional problems of daily living, and health maintenance. Visit and observe patients on hospital rounds or house calls, updating charts, ordering therapy, and reporting back to physician. Provide physicians with assistance during surgery or complicated medical procedures. Perform therapeutic procedures, such as injections, immunizations, suturing and wound care, and infection management. Supervise and coordinate activities of technicians and technical assistants. Order medical and laboratory supplies and equipment.
29-1081| Podiatrists|Surgically treat conditions such as corns, calluses, ingrown nails, tumors, shortened tendons, bunions, cysts, and abscesses. Diagnose diseases and deformities of the foot using medical histories, physical examinations, x-rays, and laboratory test results. Prescribe medications, corrective devices, physical therapy, or surgery. Advise patients about treatments and foot care techniques necessary for prevention of future problems. Treat bone, muscle, and joint disorders affecting the feet and ankles. Refer patients to physicians when symptoms indicative of systemic disorders, such as arthritis or diabetes, are observed in feet and legs. Make and fit prosthetic appliances. Correct deformities by means of plaster casts and strapping. Perform administrative duties such as hiring employees, ordering supplies, and keeping records. Educate the public about the benefits of foot care through techniques such as speaking engagements, advertising, and other forums. Treat deformities using mechanical methods, such as whirlpool or paraffin baths, and electrical methods, such as short wave and low voltage currents.
29-1122| Occupational Therapists|Complete and maintain necessary records. Test and evaluate patients' physical and mental abilities and analyze medical data to determine realistic rehabilitation goals for patients. Train caregivers how to provide for the needs of a patient during and after therapy. Evaluate patients' progress and prepare reports that detail progress. Plan, organize, and conduct occupational therapy programs in hospital, institutional, or community settings to help rehabilitate those impaired because of illness, injury or psychological or developmental problems. Select activities that will help individuals learn work and life-management skills within limits of their mental or physical capabilities. Recommend changes in patients' work or living environments, consistent with their needs and capabilities. Design and create, or requisition, special supplies and equipment, such as splints, braces, and computer-aided adaptive equipment. Develop and participate in health promotion programs, group activities, or discussions to promote client health, facilitate social adjustment, alleviate stress, and prevent physical or mental disability. Consult with rehabilitation team to select activity programs or coordinate occupational therapy with other therapeutic activities. Lay out materials such as puzzles, scissors and eating utensils for use in therapy, and clean and repair these tools after therapy sessions. Plan and implement programs and social activities to help patients learn work or school skills and adjust to handicaps. Help clients improve decision making, abstract reasoning, memory, sequencing, coordination, and perceptual skills, using computer programs. Provide training and supervision in therapy techniques and objectives for students or nurses and other medical staff. Conduct research in occupational therapy. Advise on health risks in the workplace or on health-related transition to retirement.
29-1123| Physical Therapists|Plan, prepare, or carry out individually designed programs of physical treatment to maintain, improve, or restore physical functioning, alleviate pain, or prevent physical dysfunction in patients. Perform and document an initial exam, evaluating data to identify problems and determine a diagnosis prior to intervention. Evaluate effects of treatment at various stages and adjust treatments to achieve maximum benefit. Identify and document goals, anticipated progress, and plans for reevaluation. Record prognosis, treatment, response, and progress in patient's chart or enter information into computer. Obtain patients' informed consent to proposed interventions. Test and measure patient's strength, motor development and function, sensory perception, functional capacity, or respiratory or circulatory efficiency and record data. Review physician's referral and patient's medical records to help determine diagnosis and physical therapy treatment required. Discharge patient from physical therapy when goals or projected outcomes have been attained and provide for appropriate follow-up care or referrals. Instruct patient and family in treatment procedures to be continued at home. Administer manual exercises, massage, or traction to help relieve pain, increase patient strength, or decrease or prevent deformity or crippling. Direct, supervise, assess, and communicate with supportive personnel. Inform patients and refer to appropriate practitioners when diagnosis reveals findings outside physical therapy. Provide information to the patient about the proposed intervention, its material risks and expected benefits, and any reasonable alternatives. Confer with the patient, medical practitioners, or appropriate others to plan, implement, or assess the intervention program. Provide educational information about physical therapy or physical therapists, injury prevention, ergonomics, or ways to promote health. Administer treatment involving application of physical agents, using equipment, moist packs, ultraviolet or infrared lamps, or ultrasound machines. Teach physical therapy students or those in other health professions. Refer clients to community resources or services. Evaluate, fit, or adjust prosthetic or orthotic devices or recommend modification to orthotist. Conduct or support research and apply research findings to practice. Participate in community or community agency activities or help to formulate public policy. Direct group rehabilitation activities. Construct, maintain, or repair medical supportive devices.
29-1124| Radiation Therapists|Position patients for treatment with accuracy, according to prescription. Administer prescribed doses of radiation to specific body parts, using radiation therapy equipment according to established practices and standards. Follow principles of radiation protection for patient, self, and others. Review prescription, diagnosis, patient chart, and identification. Conduct most treatment sessions independently, in accordance with the long-term treatment plan and under the general direction of the patient's physician. Enter data into computer and set controls to operate or adjust equipment or regulate dosage. Check radiation therapy equipment to ensure proper operation. Observe and reassure patients during treatment and report unusual reactions to physician or turn equipment off if unexpected adverse reactions occur. Educate, prepare, and reassure patients and their families by answering questions, providing physical assistance, and reinforcing physicians' advice regarding treatment reactions or post-treatment care. Maintain records, reports, or files as required, including such information as radiation dosages, equipment settings, or patients' reactions. Check for side effects, such as skin irritation, nausea, or hair loss to assess patients' reaction to treatment. Prepare or construct equipment, such as immobilization, treatment, or protection devices. Help physicians, radiation oncologists, or clinical physicists to prepare physical or technical aspects of radiation treatment plans, using information about patient condition and anatomy. Calculate actual treatment dosages delivered during each session. Photograph treated area of patient and process film. Act as liaison with physicist and supportive care personnel. Schedule patients for treatment times. Provide assistance to other healthcare personnel during dosimetry procedures and tumor localization. Train or supervise student or subordinate radiotherapy technologists. Implement appropriate follow-up care plans. Store, sterilize, or prepare the special applicators containing the radioactive substance implanted by the physician. Assist in the preparation of sealed radioactive materials, such as cobalt, radium, cesium, or isotopes, for use in radiation treatments.
29-1125| Recreational Therapists|Conduct therapy sessions to improve patients' mental and physical well-being. Observe, analyze, and record patients' participation, reactions, and progress during treatment sessions, modifying treatment programs as needed. Plan, organize, direct and participate in treatment programs and activities to facilitate patients' rehabilitation, help them integrate into the community and prevent further medical problems. Develop treatment plan to meet needs of patient, based on needs assessment, patient interests and objectives of therapy. Prepare and submit reports and charts to treatment team to reflect patients' reactions and evidence of progress or regression. Obtain information from medical records, medical staff, family members and the patients themselves to assess patients' capabilities, needs and interests. Counsel and encourage patients to develop leisure activities. Instruct patient in activities and techniques, such as sports, dance, music, art or relaxation techniques, designed to meet their specific physical or psychological needs. Confer with members of treatment team to plan and evaluate therapy programs. Encourage clients with special needs and circumstances to acquire new skills and get involved in health-promoting leisure activities, such as sports, games, arts and crafts, and gardening.
29-1126| Respiratory Therapists|Provide emergency care, such as artificial respiration, external cardiac massage, or assistance with cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Monitor patient's physiological responses to therapy, such as vital signs, arterial blood gases, or blood chemistry changes, and consult with physician if adverse reactions occur. Set up and operate devices such as mechanical ventilators, therapeutic gas administration apparatus, environmental control systems, or aerosol generators, following specified parameters of treatment. Work as part of a team of physicians, nurses, or other healthcare professionals to manage patient care by assisting with medical procedures or related duties. Maintain charts that contain patients' pertinent identification and therapy information. Read prescription, measure arterial blood gases, and review patient information to assess patient condition. Relay blood analysis results to a physician. Inspect, clean, test, and maintain respiratory therapy equipment to ensure equipment is functioning safely and efficiently, ordering repairs when necessary. Explain treatment procedures to patients to gain cooperation and allay fears. Make emergency visits to resolve equipment problems. Determine requirements for treatment, such as type, method and duration of therapy, precautions to be taken, or medication and dosages, compatible with physicians' orders. Enforce safety rules and ensure careful adherence to physicians' orders. Educate patients and their families about their conditions and teach appropriate disease management techniques, such as breathing exercises or the use of medications or respiratory equipment. Perform bronchopulmonary drainage and assist or instruct patients in performance of breathing exercises. Conduct tests, such as electrocardiograms (EKGs), stress testing, or lung capacity tests, to evaluate patients' cardiopulmonary functions. Perform pulmonary function and adjust equipment to obtain optimum results in therapy. Demonstrate respiratory care procedures to trainees or other healthcare personnel. Use a variety of testing techniques to assist doctors in cardiac or pulmonary research or to diagnose disorders. Transport patients to the hospital or within the hospital. Teach, train, supervise, or use the assistance of students, respiratory therapy technicians, or assistants. Perform endotracheal intubation to maintain open airways for patients who are unable to breathe on their own. Monitor cardiac patients, using electrocardiography devices, such as a holter monitor.
29-1127| Speech-Language Pathologists|Monitor patients' progress and adjust treatments accordingly. Develop or implement treatment plans for problems such as stuttering, delayed language, swallowing disorders, or inappropriate pitch or harsh voice problems, based on own assessments and recommendations of physicians, psychologists, or social workers. Write reports and maintain proper documentation of information, such as client Medicaid or billing records or caseload activities, including the initial evaluation, treatment, progress, and discharge of clients. Participate in and write reports for meetings regarding patients' progress, such as individualized educational planning (IEP) meetings, in-service meetings, or intervention assistance team meetings. Evaluate hearing or speech and language test results, barium swallow results, or medical or background information to diagnose and plan treatment for speech, language, fluency, voice, or swallowing disorders. Complete administrative responsibilities, such as coordinating paperwork, scheduling case management activities, or writing lesson plans. Develop individual or group activities or programs in schools to deal with behavior, speech, language, or swallowing problems. Instruct clients in techniques for more effective communication, such as sign language, lip reading, or voice improvement. Administer hearing or speech and language evaluations, tests, or examinations to patients to collect information on type and degree of impairments, using written or oral tests or special instruments. Educate patients and family members about various topics, such as communication techniques or strategies to cope with or to avoid personal misunderstandings. Supervise or collaborate with therapy team. Teach clients to control or strengthen tongue, jaw, face muscles, or breathing mechanisms. Participate in conferences, training, continuing education courses, or publish research results to share knowledge of new hearing or speech disorder treatment methods or technologies. Consult with and refer clients to additional medical or educational services. Communicate with non-speaking students, using sign language or computer technology. Consult with and advise educators or medical staff on speech or hearing topics, such as communication strategies or speech and language stimulation. Design, develop, or employ alternative diagnostic or communication devices or strategies. Develop speech exercise programs to reduce disabilities. Conduct lessons or direct educational or therapeutic games to assist teachers dealing with speech problems. Use computer applications to identify or assist with communication disabilities. Provide communication instruction to dialect speakers or students with limited English proficiency. Conduct or direct research on speech or hearing topics and report findings for use in developing procedures, technologies, or treatments.
29-1128| Exercise Physiologists|Develop exercise programs to improve participant strength, flexibility, endurance, or circulatory functioning, in accordance with exercise science standards, regulatory requirements, and credentialing requirements. Prescribe individualized exercise programs, specifying equipment such as treadmill, exercise bicycle, ergometers, or perceptual goggles. Interpret exercise program participant data to evaluate progress or identify needed program changes. Explain exercise program or physiological testing procedures to participants. Provide emergency or other appropriate medical care to participants with symptoms or signs of physical distress. Provide clinical oversight of exercise for participants at all risk levels. Demonstrate correct use of exercise equipment or performance of exercise routines. Interview participants to obtain medical history or assess participant goals. Recommend methods to increase lifestyle physical activity. Assess physical performance requirements to aid in the development of individualized recovery or rehabilitation exercise programs. Conduct stress tests, using electrocardiograph (EKG) machines. Teach group exercise for low, medium, or high risk clients to improve participant strength, flexibility, endurance, or circulatory functioning. Teach courses or seminars related to exercise or diet for patients, athletes, or community groups. Plan or conduct exercise physiology research projects. Measure amount of body fat, using such equipment as hydrostatic scale, skinfold calipers, or tape measures. Teach behavior modification classes related to topics such as stress management or weight control. Calibrate exercise or testing equipment. Supervise maintenance of exercise or exercise testing equipment. Measure oxygen consumption or lung functioning, using spirometers. Educate athletes or coaches on techniques to improve athletic performance, such as heart rate monitoring, recovery techniques, hydration strategies, or training limits. Present exercise knowledge, program information, or research study findings at professional meetings or conferences. Order or recommend diagnostic procedures, such as stress tests, drug screenings, or urinary tests. Mentor or train staff to lead group exercise. Perform routine laboratory tests of blood samples for cholesterol level or glucose tolerance. Evaluate staff performance in leading group exercise or conducting diagnostic tests.
29-1131| Veterinarians|Examine animals to detect and determine the nature of diseases or injuries. Treat sick or injured animals by prescribing medication, setting bones, dressing wounds, or performing surgery. Collect body tissue, feces, blood, urine, or other body fluids for examination and analysis. Inoculate animals against various diseases such as rabies or distemper. Counsel clients about the deaths of their pets or about euthanasia decisions for their pets. Operate diagnostic equipment, such as radiographic or ultrasound equipment, and interpret the resulting images. Advise animal owners regarding sanitary measures, feeding, general care, medical conditions, or treatment options. Educate the public about diseases that can be spread from animals to humans. Attend lectures, conferences, or continuing education courses. Establish or conduct quarantine or testing procedures that prevent the spread of diseases to other animals or to humans and that comply with applicable government regulations. Euthanize animals. Train or supervise workers who handle or care for animals. Research diseases to which animals could be susceptible. Plan or execute animal nutrition or reproduction programs. Perform administrative or business management tasks, such as scheduling appointments, accepting payments from clients, budgeting, or maintaining business records. Conduct postmortem studies and analyses to determine the causes of animals' deaths. Inspect and test horses, sheep, poultry, or other animals to detect the presence of communicable diseases. Provide care to a wide range of animals or specialize in a particular species, such as horses or exotic birds. Drive mobile clinic vans to farms so that health problems can be treated or prevented. Direct the overall operations of animal hospitals, clinics, or mobile services to farms. Specialize in a particular type of treatment, such as dentistry, pathology, nutrition, surgery, microbiology, or internal medicine. Determine the effects of drug therapies, antibiotics, or new surgical techniques by testing them on animals. Inspect animal housing facilities to determine their cleanliness and adequacy.
29-1141| Registered Nurses|Maintain accurate, detailed reports and records. Administer medications to patients and monitor patients for reactions or side effects. Record patients' medical information and vital signs. Monitor, record, and report symptoms or changes in patients' conditions. Consult and coordinate with healthcare team members to assess, plan, implement, or evaluate patient care plans. Modify patient treatment plans as indicated by patients' responses and conditions. Monitor all aspects of patient care, including diet and physical activity. Direct or supervise less-skilled nursing or healthcare personnel or supervise a particular unit. Prepare patients for and assist with examinations or treatments. Instruct individuals, families, or other groups on topics such as health education, disease prevention, or childbirth and develop health improvement programs. Assess the needs of individuals, families, or communities, including assessment of individuals' home or work environments, to identify potential health or safety problems. Prepare rooms, sterile instruments, equipment, or supplies and ensure that stock of supplies is maintained. Refer students or patients to specialized health resources or community agencies furnishing assistance. Consult with institutions or associations regarding issues or concerns relevant to the practice and profession of nursing. Inform physician of patient's condition during anesthesia. Administer local, inhalation, intravenous, or other anesthetics. Provide health care, first aid, immunizations, or assistance in convalescence or rehabilitation in locations such as schools, hospitals, or industry. Hand items to surgeons during operations. Observe nurses and visit patients to ensure proper nursing care. Conduct specified laboratory tests. Direct or coordinate infection control programs, advising or consulting with specified personnel about necessary precautions. Engage in research activities related to nursing. Prescribe or recommend drugs, medical devices, or other forms of treatment, such as physical therapy, inhalation therapy, or related therapeutic procedures. Order, interpret, and evaluate diagnostic tests to identify and assess patient's condition. Perform physical examinations, make tentative diagnoses, and treat patients en route to hospitals or at disaster site triage centers. Perform administrative or managerial functions, such as taking responsibility for a unit's staff, budget, planning, or long-range goals. Provide or arrange for training or instruction of auxiliary personnel or students. Work with individuals, groups, or families to plan or implement programs designed to improve the overall health of communities.
29-1151| Nurse Anesthetists|Manage patients' airway or pulmonary status using techniques such as endotracheal intubation, mechanical ventilation, pharmacological support, respiratory therapy, and extubation. Select, prepare, or use equipment, monitors, supplies, or drugs for the administration of anesthetics. Select, order, or administer anesthetics, adjuvant drugs, accessory drugs, fluids or blood products as necessary. Monitor patients' responses, including skin color, pupil dilation, pulse, heart rate, blood pressure, respiration, ventilation, or urine output, using invasive and noninvasive techniques. Perform pre-anesthetic screenings, including physical evaluations and patient interviews, and document results. Respond to emergency situations by providing airway management, administering emergency fluids or drugs, or using basic or advanced cardiac life support techniques. Develop anesthesia care plans. Obtain informed consent from patients for anesthesia procedures. Assess patients' medical histories to predict anesthesia response. Select, order, or administer pre-anesthetic medications. Perform or evaluate the results of diagnostic tests such as radiographs (x-rays) and electrocardiograms (EKGs). Perform or manage regional anesthetic techniques such as local, spinal, epidural, caudal, nerve blocks and intravenous blocks. Prepare prescribed solutions and administer local, intravenous, spinal, or other anesthetics following specified methods and procedures. Administer post-anesthesia medications or fluids to support patients' cardiovascular systems. Calibrate and test anesthesia equipment. Evaluate patients' post-surgical or post-anesthesia responses, taking appropriate corrective actions or requesting consultation if complications occur. Select and prescribe post-anesthesia medications or treatments to patients. Insert peripheral or central intravenous catheters. Discharge patients from post-anesthesia care. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, and participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in nursing. Request anesthesia equipment repairs, adjustments, or safety tests. Insert arterial catheters or perform arterial punctures to obtain arterial blood samples. Instruct nurses, residents, interns, students or other staff on topics such as anesthetic techniques, pain management and emergency responses. Disassemble and clean anesthesia equipment.
29-1161| Nurse Midwives|Monitor fetal development by listening to fetal heartbeat, taking external uterine measurements, identifying fetal position, or estimating fetal size and weight. Initiate emergency interventions to stabilize patients. Provide prenatal, intrapartum, postpartum, or newborn care to patients. Explain procedures to patients, family members, staff members or others. Develop and implement individualized plans for health care management. Order and interpret diagnostic or laboratory tests. Document findings of physical examinations. Educate patients and family members regarding prenatal, intrapartum, postpartum, newborn, or interconceptional care. Document patients' health histories, symptoms, physical conditions, or other diagnostic information. Write information in medical records or provide narrative summaries to communicate patient information to other health care providers. Provide primary health care, including pregnancy and childbirth, to women. Consult with or refer patients to appropriate specialists when conditions exceed the scope of practice or expertise. Perform physical examinations by taking vital signs, checking neurological reflexes, examining breasts, or performing pelvic examinations. Prescribe medications as permitted by state regulations. Provide patients with direct family planning services such as inserting intrauterine devices, dispensing oral contraceptives, and fitting cervical barriers including cervical caps or diaphragms. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, or participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in midwifery. Establish practice guidelines for specialty areas such as primary health care of women, care of the childbearing family, and newborn care. Conduct clinical research on topics such as maternal or infant health care, contraceptive methods, breastfeeding, and gynecological care. Plan, provide, or evaluate educational programs for nursing staff, health care teams, or the community. Manage newborn care during the first weeks of life.
29-1171| Nurse Practitioners|Analyze and interpret patients' histories, symptoms, physical findings, or diagnostic information to develop appropriate diagnoses. Diagnose or treat acute health care problems such as illnesses, infections, or injuries. Recommend diagnostic or therapeutic interventions with attention to safety, cost, invasiveness, simplicity, acceptability, adherence, and efficacy. Prescribe medications based on efficacy, safety, and cost as legally authorized. Educate patients about self-management of acute or chronic illnesses, tailoring instructions to patients' individual circumstances. Prescribe medication dosages, routes, and frequencies based on patient characteristics such as age and gender. Order, perform, or interpret the results of diagnostic tests, such as complete blood counts (CBCs), electrocardiograms (EKGs), and radiographs (x-rays). Maintain complete and detailed records of patients' health care plans and prognoses. Recommend interventions to modify behavior associated with health risks. Develop treatment plans based on scientific rationale, standards of care, and professional practice guidelines. Detect and respond to adverse drug reactions, with special attention to vulnerable populations such as infants, children, pregnant and lactating women, or older adults. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, or participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in nursing. Counsel patients about drug regimens and possible side effects or interactions with other substances such as food supplements, over-the-counter (OTC) medications, or herbal remedies. Diagnose or treat chronic health care problems such as high blood pressure and diabetes. Provide patients with information needed to promote health, reduce risk factors, or prevent disease or disability. Treat or refer patients for primary care conditions, such as headaches, hypertension, urinary tract infections, upper respiratory infections, and dermatological conditions. Consult with or refer patients to appropriate specialists when conditions exceed the scope of practice or expertise. Diagnose or treat complex, unstable, comorbid, episodic, or emergency conditions in collaboration with other health care providers as necessary. Schedule follow-up visits to monitor patients or evaluate health or illness care. Perform routine or annual physical examinations. Supervise or coordinate patient care or support staff activities. Maintain current knowledge of state legal regulations for nurse practitioner practice including reimbursement of services. Provide patients or caregivers with assistance in locating health care resources. Maintain departmental policies and procedures in areas such as safety and infection control. Perform primary care procedures such as suturing, splinting, administering immunizations, taking cultures, and debriding wounds. Advocate for accessible health care that minimizes environmental health risks. Keep abreast of regulatory processes and payer systems such as Medicare, Medicaid, managed care, and private sources.
29-1181| Audiologists|Administer hearing tests and examine patients to collect information on type and degree of impairment, using specialized instruments and electronic equipment. Fit, dispense, and repair assistive devices, such as hearing aids. Maintain patient records at all stages, including initial and subsequent evaluation and treatment activities. Evaluate hearing and balance disorders to determine diagnoses and courses of treatment. Program and monitor cochlear implants to fit the needs of patients. Counsel and instruct patients and their families in techniques to improve hearing and communication related to hearing loss. Refer patients to additional medical or educational services if needed. Monitor patients' progress and provide ongoing observation of hearing or balance status. Educate and supervise audiology students and health care personnel. Instruct patients, parents, teachers, or employers in communication strategies to maximize effective receptive communication. Recommend assistive devices according to patients' needs or nature of impairments. Participate in conferences or training to update or share knowledge of new hearing or balance disorder treatment methods or technologies. Plan and conduct treatment programs for patients' hearing or balance problems, consulting with educators, physicians, nurses, psychologists, speech-language pathologists, and other health care personnel as necessary. Work with multidisciplinary teams to assess and rehabilitate recipients of implanted hearing devices through auditory training and counseling. Advise educators or other medical staff on hearing or balance topics. Provide information to the public on hearing or balance topics. Examine and clean patients' ear canals. Engage in marketing activities, such as developing marketing plans, to promote business for private practices. Perform administrative tasks, such as managing office functions and finances. Measure noise levels in workplaces and conduct hearing conservation programs in industry, military, schools, and communities. Develop and supervise hearing screening programs. Conduct or direct research on hearing or balance topics and report findings to help in the development of procedures, technology, or treatments.
29-2011| Medical and Clinical Laboratory Technologists|Conduct chemical analysis of body fluids, including blood, urine, or spinal fluid, to determine presence of normal or abnormal components. Analyze laboratory findings to check the accuracy of the results. Operate, calibrate, or maintain equipment used in quantitative or qualitative analysis, such as spectrophotometers, calorimeters, flame photometers, or computer-controlled analyzers. Collect and study blood samples to determine the number of cells, their morphology, or their blood group, blood type, or compatibility for transfusion purposes, using microscopic techniques. Enter data from analysis of medical tests or clinical results into computer for storage. Establish or monitor quality assurance programs or activities to ensure the accuracy of laboratory results. Analyze samples of biological material for chemical content or reaction. Set up, clean, and maintain laboratory equipment. Provide technical information about test results to physicians, family members, or researchers. Cultivate, isolate, or assist in identifying microbial organisms or perform various tests on these microorganisms. Supervise, train, or direct lab assistants, medical and clinical laboratory technicians or technologists, or other medical laboratory workers engaged in laboratory testing. Develop, standardize, evaluate, or modify procedures, techniques, or tests used in the analysis of specimens or in medical laboratory experiments. Harvest cell cultures at optimum time, based on knowledge of cell cycle differences and culture conditions. Select and prepare specimens and media for cell cultures, using aseptic technique and knowledge of medium components and cell requirements. Obtain, cut, stain, and mount biological material on slides for microscopic study and diagnosis, following standard laboratory procedures. Conduct medical research under direction of microbiologist or biochemist.
29-2012| Medical and Clinical Laboratory Technicians|Conduct chemical analyses of body fluids, such as blood or urine, using microscope or automatic analyzer to detect abnormalities or diseases and enter findings into computer. Analyze the results of tests or experiments to ensure conformity to specifications, using special mechanical or electrical devices. Set up, maintain, calibrate, clean, and test sterility of medical laboratory equipment. Prepare standard volumetric solutions or reagents to be combined with samples, following standardized formulas or experimental procedures. Collect blood or tissue samples from patients, observing principles of asepsis to obtain blood sample. Supervise or instruct other technicians or laboratory assistants. Conduct blood tests for transfusion purposes and perform blood counts. Inoculate fertilized eggs, broths, or other bacteriological media with organisms. Obtain specimens, cultivating, isolating, and identifying microorganisms for analysis. Examine cells stained with dye to locate abnormalities. Consult with a pathologist to determine a final diagnosis when abnormal cells are found. Cut, stain, and mount tissue samples for examination by pathologists. Perform medical research to further control or cure disease. Test raw materials, processes, or finished products to determine quality or quantity of materials or characteristics of a substance. Analyze and record test data to issue reports that use charts, graphs, or narratives.
29-2021| Dental Hygienists|Clean calcareous deposits, accretions, and stains from teeth and beneath margins of gums, using dental instruments. Record and review patient medical histories. Examine gums, using probes, to locate periodontal recessed gums and signs of gum disease. Feel and visually examine gums for sores and signs of disease. Expose and develop x-ray film. Chart conditions of decay and disease for diagnosis and treatment by dentist. Maintain dental equipment and sharpen and sterilize dental instruments. Feel lymph nodes under patient's chin to detect swelling or tenderness that could indicate presence of oral cancer. Provide clinical services or health education to improve and maintain the oral health of patients or the general public. Apply fluorides or other cavity preventing agents to arrest dental decay. Maintain patient recall system. Administer local anesthetic agents. Remove excess cement from coronal surfaces of teeth. Conduct dental health clinics for community groups to augment services of dentist.
29-2031| Cardiovascular Technologists and Technicians|Conduct electrocardiogram (EKG), phonocardiogram, echocardiogram, stress testing, or other cardiovascular tests to record patients' cardiac activity, using specialized electronic test equipment, recording devices, or laboratory instruments. Explain testing procedures to patients to obtain cooperation and reduce anxiety. Monitor patients' blood pressure and heart rate using electrocardiogram (EKG) equipment during diagnostic or therapeutic procedures to notify the physician if something appears wrong. Obtain and record patient identification, medical history, or test results. Monitor patients' comfort and safety during tests, alerting physicians to abnormalities or changes in patient responses. Prepare and position patients for testing. Attach electrodes to the patients' chests, arms, and legs, connect electrodes to leads from the electrocardiogram (EKG) machine, and operate the EKG machine to obtain a reading. Adjust equipment and controls according to physicians' orders or established protocol. Check, test, and maintain cardiology equipment, making minor repairs when necessary, to ensure proper operation. Supervise or train other cardiology technologists or students. Compare measurements of heart wall thickness and chamber sizes to standard norms to identify abnormalities. Maintain a proper sterile field during surgical procedures. Observe ultrasound display screen and listen to signals to record vascular information, such as blood pressure, limb volume changes, oxygen saturation, or cerebral circulation. Assist surgeons with vascular procedures, such as preparing balloons and stents. Assist physicians in the diagnosis and treatment of cardiac or peripheral vascular treatments, such as implanting pacemakers or assisting with balloon angioplasties to treat blood vessel blockages. Assess cardiac physiology and calculate valve areas from blood flow velocity measurements. Operate diagnostic imaging equipment to produce contrast enhanced radiographs of heart and cardiovascular system. Observe gauges, recorder, and video screens of data analysis system during imaging of cardiovascular system. Inject contrast medium into patients' blood vessels. Transcribe, type, and distribute reports of diagnostic procedures for interpretation by physician. Enter factors such as amount and quality of radiation beam, and filming sequence, into computer. Conduct tests of pulmonary system, using spirometer or other respiratory testing equipment. Activate fluoroscope and camera to produce images used to guide catheter through cardiovascular system. Set up 24-hour Holter and event monitors, scan and interpret tapes, and report results to physicians. Perform general administrative tasks, such as scheduling appointments or ordering supplies or equipment.
29-2032| Diagnostic Medical Sonographers|Observe screen during scan to ensure that image produced is satisfactory for diagnostic purposes, making adjustments to equipment as required. Observe and care for patients throughout examinations to ensure their safety and comfort. Provide sonogram and oral or written summary of technical findings to physician for use in medical diagnosis. Select appropriate equipment settings and adjust patient positions to obtain the best sites and angles. Operate ultrasound equipment to produce and record images of the motion, shape, and composition of blood, organs, tissues, or bodily masses, such as fluid accumulations. Decide which images to include, looking for differences between healthy and pathological areas. Prepare patient for exam by explaining procedure, transferring patient to ultrasound table, scrubbing skin and applying gel, and positioning patient properly. Determine whether scope of exam should be extended, based on findings. Obtain and record accurate patient history, including prior test results or information from physical examinations. Maintain records that include patient information, sonographs and interpretations, files of correspondence, publications and regulations, or quality assurance records, such as pathology, biopsy, or post-operative reports. Record and store suitable images, using camera unit connected to the ultrasound equipment. Coordinate work with physicians or other healthcare team members, including providing assistance during invasive procedures. Clean, check, and maintain sonographic equipment, submitting maintenance requests or performing minor repairs as necessary. Perform clerical duties, such as scheduling exams or special procedures, keeping records, or archiving computerized images. Perform legal and ethical duties, including preparing safety or accident reports, obtaining written consent from patient to perform invasive procedures, or reporting symptoms of abuse or neglect. Supervise or train students or other medical sonographers. Perform medical procedures, such as administering oxygen, inserting and removing airways, taking vital signs, or giving emergency treatment, such as first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Maintain stock and supplies, preparing supplies for special examinations and ordering supplies when necessary. Process and code film from procedures and complete appropriate documentation. Load and unload film cassettes used to record images from procedures.
29-2033| Nuclear Medicine Technologists|Administer radiopharmaceuticals or radiation intravenously to detect or treat diseases, using radioisotope equipment, under direction of a physician. Detect and map radiopharmaceuticals in patients' bodies, using a camera to produce photographic or computer images. Process cardiac function studies, using computer. Calculate, measure, and record radiation dosage or radiopharmaceuticals received, used, and disposed, using computer and following physician's prescription. Record and process results of procedures. Produce a computer-generated or film image for interpretation by a physician. Prepare stock radiopharmaceuticals, adhering to safety standards that minimize radiation exposure to workers and patients. Explain test procedures and safety precautions to patients and provide them with assistance during test procedures. Perform quality control checks on laboratory equipment or cameras. Dispose of radioactive materials and store radiopharmaceuticals, following radiation safety procedures. Gather information on patients' illnesses and medical history to guide the choice of diagnostic procedures for therapy. Maintain and calibrate radioisotope and laboratory equipment. Measure glandular activity, blood volume, red cell survival, or radioactivity of patient, using scanners, Geiger counters, scintillometers, or other laboratory equipment. Train or supervise student or subordinate nuclear medicine technologists. Position radiation fields, radiation beams, and patient to allow for most effective treatment of patient's disease, using computer. Add radioactive substances to biological specimens, such as blood, urine, or feces, to determine therapeutic drug or hormone levels. Develop treatment procedures for nuclear medicine treatment programs.
29-2034| Radiologic Technologists|Review and evaluate developed x-rays, video tape, or computer-generated information to determine if images are satisfactory for diagnostic purposes. Operate or oversee operation of radiologic or magnetic imaging equipment to produce images of the body for diagnostic purposes. Use radiation safety measures and protection devices to comply with government regulations and to ensure safety of patients and staff. Position imaging equipment and adjust controls to set exposure time and distance, according to specification of examination. Explain procedures and observe patients to ensure safety and comfort during scan. Position and immobilize patient on examining table. Take thorough and accurate patient medical histories. Key commands and data into computer to document and specify scan sequences, adjust transmitters and receivers, or photograph certain images. Set up examination rooms, ensuring that all necessary equipment is ready. Monitor patients' conditions and reactions, reporting abnormal signs to physician. Record, process, and maintain patient data or treatment records and prepare reports. Monitor video display of area being scanned and adjust density or contrast to improve picture quality. Coordinate work with clerical personnel or other technologists. Provide assistance in dressing or changing seriously ill, injured, or disabled patients. Prepare and administer oral or injected contrast media to patients. Remove and process film. Operate fluoroscope to aid physician to view and guide wire or catheter through blood vessels to area of interest. Collaborate with other medical team members, such as physicians or nurses, to conduct angiography or special vascular procedures. Measure thickness of section to be radiographed, using instruments similar to measuring tapes. Assign duties to radiologic staff to maintain patient flows and achieve production goals. Perform scheduled maintenance or minor emergency repairs on radiographic equipment. Demonstrate new equipment, procedures, or techniques to staff and provide technical assistance. Perform administrative duties, such as developing departmental operating budget, coordinating purchases of supplies or equipment, or preparing work schedules.
29-2035| Magnetic Resonance Imaging Technologists|Conduct screening interviews of patients to identify contraindications, such as ferrous objects, pregnancy, prosthetic heart valves, cardiac pacemakers, or tattoos. Operate Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners. Select appropriate imaging techniques or coils to produce required images. Inspect images for quality, using magnetic resonance scanner equipment and laser camera. Take brief medical histories from patients. Position patients on cradle, attaching immobilization devices if needed, to ensure appropriate placement for imaging. Explain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedures to patients, patient representatives, or family members. Inject intravenously contrast dyes, such as gadolinium contrast, in accordance with scope of practice. Provide headphones or earplugs to patients to improve comfort and reduce unpleasant noise. Create backup copies of images by transferring images from disk to storage media or workstation. Test magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) equipment to ensure proper functioning and performance in accordance with specifications. Write reports or notes to summarize testing procedures or outcomes for physicians or other medical professionals. Calibrate magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) console or peripheral hardware. Troubleshoot technical issues related to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner or peripheral equipment, such as monitors or coils. Request sedatives or other medication from physicians for patients with anxiety or claustrophobia. Develop or otherwise produce film records of magnetic resonance images. Operate optical systems to capture dynamic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images, such as functional brain imaging, real-time organ motion tracking, or musculoskeletal anatomy and trajectory visualization. Conduct inventories to maintain stock of clinical supplies. Attach physiological monitoring leads to patient's finger, chest, waist, or other body parts. Instruct medical staff or students in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedures or equipment operation. Connect physiological leads to physiological acquisition control (PAC) units. Schedule appointments for research subjects or clinical patients. Place and secure small, portable magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanners on body part to be imaged, such as arm, leg, or head.
29-2041| Emergency Medical Technicians and Paramedics|Administer first aid treatment or life support care to sick or injured persons in prehospital settings. Operate equipment, such as electrocardiograms (EKGs), external defibrillators, or bag valve mask resuscitators, in advanced life support environments. Perform emergency diagnostic and treatment procedures, such as stomach suction, airway management, or heart monitoring, during ambulance ride. Observe, record, and report to physician the patient's condition or injury, the treatment provided, and reactions to drugs or treatment. Assess nature and extent of illness or injury to establish and prioritize medical procedures. Drive mobile intensive care unit to specified location, following instructions from emergency medical dispatcher. Decontaminate ambulance interior following treatment of patient with infectious disease and report case to proper authorities. Administer drugs, orally or by injection, or perform intravenous procedures under a physician's direction. Immobilize patient for placement on stretcher and ambulance transport, using backboard or other spinal immobilization device. Coordinate work with other emergency medical team members or police or fire department personnel. Maintain vehicles and medical and communication equipment and replenish first aid equipment and supplies. Communicate with dispatchers or treatment center personnel to provide information about situation, to arrange reception of victims, or to receive instructions for further treatment. Coordinate with treatment center personnel to obtain patients' vital statistics and medical history, to determine the circumstances of the emergency, and to administer emergency treatment. Comfort and reassure patients. Attend training classes to maintain certification licensure, keep abreast of new developments in the field, or maintain existing knowledge.
29-2051| Dietetic Technicians|Observe patient food intake and report progress and dietary problems to dietician. Prepare a major meal, following recipes and determining group food quantities. Supervise food production or service or assist dietitians or nutritionists in food service supervision or planning. Plan menus or diets or guide individuals or families in food selection, preparation, or menu planning, based upon nutritional needs and established guidelines. Analyze menus or recipes, standardize recipes, or test new products. Conduct nutritional assessments of individuals, including obtaining and evaluating individuals' dietary histories, to plan nutritional programs. Determine food and beverage costs and assist in implementing cost control procedures. Develop job specifications, job descriptions, or work schedules. Deliver speeches on diet, nutrition, or health to promote healthy eating habits and illness prevention and treatment. Refer patients to other relevant services to provide continuity of care. Select, schedule, or conduct orientation or in-service education programs. Provide dietitians with assistance researching food, nutrition, or food service systems.
29-2052| Pharmacy Technicians|Receive written prescription or refill requests and verify that information is complete and accurate. Prepack bulk medicines, fill bottles with prescribed medications, and type and affix labels. Answer telephones, responding to questions or requests. Maintain proper storage and security conditions for drugs. Assist customers by answering simple questions, locating items, or referring them to the pharmacist for medication information. Price and file prescriptions that have been filled. Establish or maintain patient profiles, including lists of medications taken by individual patients. Order, label, and count stock of medications, chemicals, or supplies and enter inventory data into computer. Receive and store incoming supplies, verify quantities against invoices, check for outdated medications in current inventory, and inform supervisors of stock needs and shortages. Mix pharmaceutical preparations, according to written prescriptions. Operate cash registers to accept payment from customers. Clean and help maintain equipment or work areas and sterilize glassware, according to prescribed methods. Prepare and process medical insurance claim forms and records. Transfer medication from vials to the appropriate number of sterile, disposable syringes, using aseptic techniques. Supply and monitor robotic machines that dispense medicine into containers and label the containers. Restock intravenous (IV) supplies and add measured drugs or nutrients to IV solutions under sterile conditions to prepare IV packs for various uses, such as chemotherapy medication. Compute charges for medication or equipment dispensed to hospital patients and enter data in computer. Deliver medications or pharmaceutical supplies to patients, nursing stations, or surgery. Price stock and mark items for sale. Maintain and merchandise home healthcare products or services.
29-2053| Psychiatric Technicians|Take and record measures of patients' physical condition, using devices such as thermometers or blood pressure gauges. Monitor patients' physical and emotional well-being and report unusual behavior or physical ailments to medical staff. Provide nursing, psychiatric, or personal care to mentally ill, emotionally disturbed, or mentally retarded patients. Observe and influence patients' behavior, communicating and interacting with them and teaching, counseling, or befriending them. Collaborate with or assist doctors, psychologists, or rehabilitation therapists in working with mentally ill, emotionally disturbed, or developmentally disabled patients to treat, rehabilitate, and return patients to the community. Encourage patients to develop work skills and to participate in social, recreational, or other therapeutic activities that enhance interpersonal skills or develop social relationships. Restrain violent, potentially violent, or suicidal patients by verbal or physical means as required. Train or instruct new employees on procedures to follow with psychiatric patients. Develop or teach strategies to promote client wellness and independence. Administer oral medications or hypodermic injections, following physician's prescriptions and hospital procedures. Issue medications from dispensary and maintain records in accordance with specified procedures. Aid patients in performing tasks, such as bathing or keeping beds, clothing, or living areas clean. Lead prescribed individual or group therapy sessions as part of specific therapeutic procedures. Interview new patients to complete admission forms, to assess their mental health status, or to obtain their mental health and treatment history. Escort patients to medical appointments. Contact patients' relatives to arrange family conferences.
29-2054| Respiratory Therapy Technicians|Work with patients in areas such as the emergency rooms, neonatal or pediatric intensive care, or surgical intensive care, treating conditions such as emphysema, chronic bronchitis, asthma, cystic fibrosis, or pneumonia. Monitor patients during treatment and report any unusual reactions to the respiratory therapist. Keep records of patients' therapy, completing all necessary forms. Use ventilators or various oxygen devices or aerosol and breathing treatments in the provision of respiratory therapy. Follow and enforce safety rules applying to equipment. Set equipment controls to regulate the flow of oxygen, gases, mists, or aerosols. Collect and analyze arterial blood gas samples. Read and evaluate physicians' orders and patients' chart information to determine patients' condition and treatment protocols. Assess patients' response to treatments and modify treatments according to protocol if necessary. Prepare or test devices, such as mechanical ventilators, therapeutic gas administration apparatus, environmental control systems, aerosol generators, or electrocardiogram (EKG) machines. Administer breathing or oxygen procedures, such as intermittent positive pressure breathing treatments, ultrasonic nebulizer treatments, or incentive spirometer treatments. Explain treatment procedures to patients. Interview or examine patients to collect clinical data. Provide respiratory care involving the application of well-defined therapeutic techniques under the supervision of a respiratory therapist and a physician. Perform diagnostic procedures to assess the severity of respiratory dysfunction in patients. Clean, sterilize, check, and maintain respiratory therapy equipment. Teach patients how to use respiratory equipment at home. Recommend or review bedside procedures, x-rays, or laboratory tests. Teach or oversee other workers who provide respiratory care services.
29-2055| Surgical Technologists|Maintain a proper sterile field during surgical procedures. Count sponges, needles, and instruments before and after operation. Scrub arms and hands and assist the surgical team to scrub and put on gloves, masks, and surgical clothing. Provide technical assistance to surgeons, surgical nurses, or anesthesiologists. Prepare patients for surgery, including positioning patients on the operating table and covering them with sterile surgical drapes to prevent exposure. Hand instruments and supplies to surgeons and surgeons' assistants, hold retractors and cut sutures, and perform other tasks as directed by surgeon during operation. Prepare, care for, and dispose of tissue specimens taken for laboratory analysis. Wash and sterilize equipment, using germicides and sterilizers. Monitor and continually assess operating room conditions, including patient and surgical team needs. Operate, assemble, adjust, or monitor sterilizers, lights, suction machines, or diagnostic equipment to ensure proper operation. Prepare dressings or bandages and apply or assist with their application following surgery. Clean and restock operating room, gathering and placing equipment and supplies and arranging instruments according to instructions, such as a preference card. Order surgical supplies. Observe patients' vital signs to assess physical condition. Maintain supply of fluids, such as plasma, saline, blood, or glucose, for use during operations. Maintain files and records of surgical procedures.
29-2056| Veterinary Technologists and Technicians|Care for and monitor the condition of animals recovering from surgery. Maintain controlled drug inventory and related log books. Administer anesthesia to animals, under the direction of a veterinarian, and monitor animals' responses to anesthetics so that dosages can be adjusted. Restrain animals during exams or procedures. Administer emergency first aid, such as performing emergency resuscitation or other life saving procedures. Observe the behavior and condition of animals and monitor their clinical symptoms. Perform laboratory tests on blood, urine, or feces, such as urinalyses or blood counts, to assist in the diagnosis and treatment of animal health problems. Prepare and administer medications, vaccines, serums, or treatments, as prescribed by veterinarians. Clean and sterilize instruments, equipment, or materials. Collect, prepare, and label samples for laboratory testing, culture, or microscopic examination. Prepare animals for surgery, performing such tasks as shaving surgical areas. Discuss medical health of pets with clients, such as post-operative status. Fill prescriptions, measuring medications and labeling containers. Take animals into treatment areas and assist with physical examinations by performing such duties as obtaining temperature, pulse, and respiration data. Maintain laboratory, research, or treatment records, as well as inventories of pharmaceuticals, equipment, or supplies. Take and develop diagnostic radiographs, using x-ray equipment. Prepare treatment rooms for surgery. Provide veterinarians with the correct equipment or instruments, as needed. Perform dental work, such as cleaning, polishing, or extracting teeth. Clean kennels, animal holding areas, surgery suites, examination rooms, or animal loading or unloading facilities to control the spread of disease. Schedule appointments and procedures for animals. Provide information or counseling regarding issues such as animal health care, behavior problems, or nutrition. Dress and suture wounds and apply splints or other protective devices. Maintain instruments, equipment, or machinery to ensure proper working condition. Give enemas and perform catheterizations, ear flushes, intravenous feedings, or gavages. Provide assistance with animal euthanasia and the disposal of remains. Supervise or train veterinary students or other staff members. Monitor medical supplies and place orders when inventory is low. Perform a variety of office, clerical, or accounting duties, such as reception, billing, bookkeeping, or selling products. Bathe animals, clip nails or claws, and brush or cut animals' hair. Conduct specialized procedures, such as animal branding or tattooing or hoof trimming.
29-2057| Ophthalmic Medical Technicians|Conduct tonometry or tonography tests to measure intraocular pressure. Measure visual acuity, including near, distance, pinhole, or dynamic visual acuity, using appropriate tests. Take and document patients' medical histories. Administer topical ophthalmic or oral medications. Conduct visual field tests to measure field of vision. Operate ophthalmic equipment, such as autorefractors, phoropters, tomographs, or retinoscopes. Clean or sterilize ophthalmic or surgical instruments. Take anatomical or functional ocular measurements of the eye or surrounding tissue, such as axial length measurements. Measure corneal curvature with keratometers or ophthalmometers to aid in the diagnosis of conditions, such as astigmatism. Measure and record lens power, using lensometers. Assist physicians in performing ophthalmic procedures, including surgery. Maintain ophthalmic instruments or equipment. Conduct ocular motility tests to measure function of eye muscles. Conduct binocular disparity tests to assess depth perception. Instruct patients in the care and use of contact lenses. Assess refractive conditions of eyes, using retinoscopes. Assist patients to insert or remove contact lenses. Call patients to inquire about their post-operative status or recovery.
29-2061| Licensed Practical and Licensed Vocational Nurses|Administer prescribed medications or start intravenous fluids, noting times and amounts on patients' charts. Observe patients, charting and reporting changes in patients' conditions, such as adverse reactions to medication or treatment, and taking any necessary action. Answer patients' calls and determine how to assist them. Measure and record patients' vital signs, such as height, weight, temperature, blood pressure, pulse, and respiration. Provide basic patient care or treatments, such as taking temperatures or blood pressures, dressing wounds, treating bedsores, giving enemas or douches, rubbing with alcohol, massaging, or performing catheterizations. Work as part of a healthcare team to assess patient needs, plan and modify care, and implement interventions. Supervise nurses' aides or assistants. Evaluate nursing intervention outcomes, conferring with other healthcare team members as necessary. Assemble and use equipment, such as catheters, tracheotomy tubes, or oxygen suppliers. Record food and fluid intake and output. Collect samples, such as blood, urine, or sputum from patients, and perform routine laboratory tests on samples. Prepare patients for examinations, tests, or treatments and explain procedures. Help patients with bathing, dressing, maintaining personal hygiene, moving in bed, or standing and walking. Apply compresses, ice bags, or hot water bottles. Sterilize equipment and supplies, using germicides, sterilizer, or autoclave. Make appointments, keep records, or perform other clerical duties in doctors' offices or clinics. Provide medical treatment or personal care to patients in private home settings, such as cooking, keeping rooms orderly, seeing that patients are comfortable and in good spirits, or instructing family members in simple nursing tasks. Set up equipment and prepare medical treatment rooms. Prepare or examine food trays for conformance to prescribed diet. Wash and dress bodies of deceased persons. Inventory and requisition supplies and instruments. Clean rooms and make beds. Assist in delivery, care, or feeding of infants.
29-2071| Medical Records and Health Information Technicians|Protect the security of medical records to ensure that confidentiality is maintained. Review records for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with regulations. Retrieve patient medical records for physicians, technicians, or other medical personnel. Assign the patient to diagnosis-related groups (DRGs), using appropriate computer software. Process patient admission or discharge documents. Transcribe medical reports. Resolve or clarify codes or diagnoses with conflicting, missing, or unclear information by consulting with doctors or others or by participating in the coding team's regular meetings. Enter data, such as demographic characteristics, history and extent of disease, diagnostic procedures, or treatment into computer. Identify, compile, abstract, and code patient data, using standard classification systems. Release information to persons or agencies according to regulations. Plan, develop, maintain, or operate a variety of health record indexes or storage and retrieval systems to collect, classify, store, or analyze information. Prepare statistical reports, narrative reports, or graphic presentations of information, such as tumor registry data for use by hospital staff, researchers, or other users. Post medical insurance billings. Compile and maintain patients' medical records to document condition and treatment and to provide data for research or cost control and care improvement efforts. Manage the department or supervise clerical workers, directing or controlling activities of personnel in the medical records department. Compile medical care and census data for statistical reports on diseases treated, surgery performed, or use of hospital beds. Train medical records staff. Process and prepare business or government forms. Consult classification manuals to locate information about disease processes. Develop in-service educational materials.
29-2081| Opticians, Dispensing|Evaluate prescriptions in conjunction with clients' vocational and avocational visual requirements. Recommend specific lenses, lens coatings, and frames to suit client needs. Verify that finished lenses are ground to specifications. Measure clients' bridge and eye size, temple length, vertex distance, pupillary distance, and optical centers of eyes, using measuring devices. Sell goods such as contact lenses, spectacles, sunglasses, and other goods related to eyes in general. Assist clients in selecting frames according to style and color, and ensure that frames are coordinated with facial and eye measurements and optical prescriptions. Heat, shape, or bend plastic or metal frames to adjust eyeglasses to fit clients, using pliers and hands. Show customers how to insert, remove, and care for their contact lenses. Determine clients' current lens prescriptions, when necessary, using lensometers or lens analyzers and clients' eyeglasses. Maintain records of customer prescriptions, work orders, and payments. Fabricate lenses to meet prescription specifications. Instruct clients in how to wear and care for eyeglasses. Prepare work orders and instructions for grinding lenses and fabricating eyeglasses. Assemble eyeglasses by cutting and edging lenses, and fitting the lenses into frames. Obtain a customer's previous record, or verify a prescription with the examining optometrist or ophthalmologist. Order and purchase frames and lenses. Repair damaged frames. Perform administrative duties such as tracking inventory and sales, submitting patient insurance information, and performing simple bookkeeping. Supervise the training of student opticians. Arrange and maintain displays of optical merchandise. Grind lens edges, or apply coatings to lenses.
29-2091| Orthotists and Prosthetists|Examine, interview, and measure patients to determine their appliance needs and to identify factors that could affect appliance fit. Fit, test, and evaluate devices on patients, and make adjustments for proper fit, function, and comfort. Instruct patients in the use and care of orthoses and prostheses. Maintain patients' records. Select materials and components to be used, based on device design. Design orthopedic and prosthetic devices, based on physicians' prescriptions and examination and measurement of patients. Make and modify plaster casts of areas that will be fitted with prostheses or orthoses, for use in the device construction process. Confer with physicians to formulate specifications and prescriptions for orthopedic or prosthetic devices. Construct and fabricate appliances or supervise others constructing the appliances. Train and supervise support staff, such as orthopedic and prosthetic assistants and technicians. Update skills and knowledge by attending conferences and seminars. Repair, rebuild, and modify prosthetic and orthopedic appliances. Show and explain orthopedic and prosthetic appliances to healthcare workers. Research new ways to construct and use orthopedic and prosthetic devices. Publish research findings or present them at conferences and seminars.
29-2092| Hearing Aid Specialists|Perform basic screening procedures such as pure tone screening, otoacoustic screening, immittance screening, and screening of ear canal status using otoscope. Administer basic hearing tests including air conduction, bone conduction, or speech audiometry tests. Select and administer tests to evaluate hearing or related disabilities. Maintain or repair hearing aids or other communication devices. Train clients to use hearing aids or other augmentative communication devices. Create or modify impressions for earmolds and hearing aid shells. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, and participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in audiology. Demonstrate assistive listening devices (ALDs) to clients. Diagnose and treat hearing or related disabilities under the direction of an audiologist. Assist audiologists in performing aural procedures such as real ear measurements, speech audiometry, auditory brainstem responses, electronystagmography, and cochlear implant mapping.
29-9011| Occupational Health and Safety Specialists|Order suspension of activities that pose threats to workers' health or safety. Investigate accidents to identify causes or to determine how such accidents might be prevented in the future. Recommend measures to help protect workers from potentially hazardous work methods, processes, or materials. Inspect or evaluate workplace environments, equipment, or practices to ensure compliance with safety standards and government regulations. Develop or maintain hygiene programs, such as noise surveys, continuous atmosphere monitoring, ventilation surveys, or asbestos management plans. Collect samples of dust, gases, vapors, or other potentially toxic materials for analysis. Investigate the adequacy of ventilation, exhaust equipment, lighting, or other conditions that could affect employee health, comfort, or performance. Conduct safety training or education programs and demonstrate the use of safety equipment. Investigate health-related complaints and inspect facilities to ensure that they comply with public health legislation and regulations. Collaborate with engineers or physicians to institute control or remedial measures for hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions or equipment. Provide new-employee health and safety orientations and develop materials for these presentations. Develop or maintain medical monitoring programs for employees. Coordinate "right-to-know" programs regarding hazardous chemicals or other substances. Maintain or update emergency response plans or procedures. Inspect specified areas to ensure the presence of fire prevention equipment, safety equipment, or first-aid supplies. Collect samples of hazardous materials or arrange for sample collection. Maintain inventories of hazardous materials or hazardous wastes, using waste tracking systems to ensure that materials are handled properly. Conduct audits at hazardous waste sites or industrial sites or participate in hazardous waste site investigations. Perform laboratory analyses or physical inspections of samples to detect disease or to assess purity or cleanliness.
29-9012| Occupational Health and Safety Technicians|Test workplaces for environmental hazards, such as exposure to radiation, chemical or biological hazards, or excessive noise. Verify availability or monitor use of safety equipment, such as hearing protection or respirators. Supply, operate, or maintain personal protective equipment. Evaluate situations or make determinations when a worker has refused to work on the grounds that danger or potential harm exists. Maintain all required environmental records and documentation. Prepare or calibrate equipment used to collect or analyze samples. Plan emergency response drills. Recommend corrective measures to be applied based on results of environmental contaminant analyses. Prepare or review specifications or orders for the purchase of safety equipment, ensuring that proper features are present and that items conform to health and safety standards. Conduct worker studies to determine whether specific instances of disease or illness are job-related. Inspect fire suppression systems or portable fire systems to ensure proper working order. Maintain logbooks of daily activities, including areas visited or activities performed. Provide consultation to organizations or agencies on the workplace application of safety principles, practices, or techniques. Prepare documents to be used in legal proceedings, testifying in such proceedings when necessary. Help direct rescue or firefighting operations in the event of a fire or an explosion. Train workers in safety procedures related to green jobs, such as the use of fall protection devices or maintenance of proper ventilation during wind turbine construction. Review records or reports concerning laboratory results, staffing, floor plans, fire inspections, or sanitation to gather information for the development or enforcement of safety activities. Conduct interviews to obtain information or evidence regarding communicable diseases or violations of health or sanitation regulations. Collect data related to ecological or human health risks at brownfield sites. Test or balance newly installed HVAC systems to determine whether indoor air quality standards are met.
29-9091| Athletic Trainers|Evaluate athletes' readiness to play and provide participation clearances when necessary and warranted. Care for athletic injuries, using physical therapy equipment, techniques, or medication. Conduct an initial assessment of an athlete's injury or illness to provide emergency or continued care and to determine whether they should be referred to physicians for definitive diagnosis and treatment. Assess and report the progress of recovering athletes to coaches or physicians. Perform general administrative tasks, such as keeping records or writing reports. Apply protective or injury preventive devices, such as tape, bandages, or braces, to body parts, such as ankles, fingers, or wrists. Plan or implement comprehensive athletic injury or illness prevention programs. Collaborate with physicians to develop and implement comprehensive rehabilitation programs for athletic injuries. Advise athletes on the proper use of equipment. Travel with athletic teams to be available at sporting events. File athlete insurance claims and communicate with insurance providers. Instruct coaches, athletes, parents, medical personnel, or community members in the care and prevention of athletic injuries. Accompany injured athletes to hospitals. Inspect playing fields to locate any items that could injure players. Develop training programs or routines designed to improve athletic performance. Recommend special diets to improve athletes' health, increase their stamina, or alter their weight. Conduct research or provide instruction on subject matter related to athletic training or sports medicine. Confer with coaches to select protective equipment. Massage body parts to relieve soreness, strains, or bruises. Lead stretching exercises for team members prior to games or practices. Teach sports medicine courses to athletic training students.
29-9092| Genetic Counselors|Interpret laboratory results and communicate findings to patients or physicians. Discuss testing options and the associated risks, benefits and limitations with patients and families to assist them in making informed decisions. Analyze genetic information to identify patients or families at risk for specific disorders or syndromes. Provide counseling to patient and family members by providing information, education, or reassurance. Write detailed consultation reports to provide information on complex genetic concepts to patients or referring physicians. Provide genetic counseling in specified areas of clinical genetics such as obstetrics, pediatrics, oncology and neurology. Determine or coordinate treatment plans by requesting laboratory services, reviewing genetics or counseling literature, and considering histories or diagnostic data. Interview patients or review medical records to obtain comprehensive patient or family medical histories, and document findings. Assess patients' psychological or emotional needs such as those relating to stress, fear of test results, financial issues, and marital conflicts to make referral recommendations or assist patients in managing test outcomes. Provide patients with information about the inheritance of conditions such as breast, ovarian, prostate and colon cancer; cardiovascular disease; Alzheimer's disease; and diabetes. Read current literature, talk with colleagues, or participate in professional organizations or conferences to keep abreast of developments in genetics. Prepare or provide genetics-related educational materials to patients or medical personnel. Explain diagnostic procedures such as chorionic villus sampling (CVS), ultrasound, fetal blood sampling, and amniocentesis. Refer patients to specialists or community resources. Design and conduct genetics training programs for physicians, graduate students, other health professions or the general community. Evaluate or make recommendations for standards of care or clinical operations, ensuring compliance with applicable regulations, ethics, legislation, or policies. Engage in research activities related to the field of medical genetics or genetic counseling. Collect for or share with research projects patient data related to specific genetic disorders or syndromes. Identify funding sources and write grant proposals for eligible programs or services.
31-1011| Home Health Aides|Maintain records of patient care, condition, progress, or problems to report and discuss observations with supervisor or case manager. Provide patients with help moving in and out of beds, baths, wheelchairs, or automobiles and with dressing and grooming. Bathe patients. Care for patients by changing bed linens, washing and ironing laundry, cleaning, or assisting with their personal care. Entertain, converse with, or read aloud to patients to keep them mentally healthy and alert. Plan, purchase, prepare, or serve meals to patients or other family members, according to prescribed diets. Check patients' pulse, temperature, and respiration. Provide patients and families with emotional support and instruction in areas such as caring for infants, preparing healthy meals, living independently, or adapting to disability or illness. Perform a variety of duties as requested by client, such as obtaining household supplies or running errands. Direct patients in simple prescribed exercises or in the use of braces or artificial limbs. Massage patients or apply preparations or treatments, such as liniment, alcohol rubs, or heat-lamp stimulation. Administer prescribed oral medications, under the written direction of physician or as directed by home care nurse or aide, and ensure patients take their medicine. Care for children who are disabled or who have sick or disabled parents. Accompany clients to doctors' offices or on other trips outside the home, providing transportation, assistance, and companionship. Change dressings.
31-1013| Psychiatric Aides|Record and maintain patient information, such as vital signs, eating habits, behavior, progress notes, treatments, or discharge plans. Listen and provide emotional support and encouragement to psychiatric patients. Complete physical checks and monitor patients to detect unusual or harmful behavior and report observations to professional staff. Restrain or aid patients as necessary to prevent injury. Serve meals or feed patients needing assistance or persuasion. Work as part of a team that may include psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatric nurses, or social workers. Clean and disinfect rooms and furnishings to maintain a safe and orderly environment. Provide mentally impaired or emotionally disturbed patients with routine physical, emotional, psychological, or rehabilitation care under the direction of nursing or medical staff. Maintain patients' restrictions to assigned areas. Provide patients with assistance in bathing, dressing, or grooming, demonstrating these skills as necessary. Aid patients in becoming accustomed to hospital routine. Organize, supervise, or encourage patient participation in social, educational, or recreational activities. Perform nursing duties, such as administering medications, measuring vital signs, collecting specimens, or drawing blood samples. Accompany patients to and from wards for medical or dental treatments, shopping trips, or religious or recreational events. Participate in recreational activities with patients, including card games, sports, or television viewing. Complete administrative tasks, such as entering orders into computer, answering telephone calls, or maintaining medical or facility information. Interview patients upon admission and record information.
31-1014| Nursing Assistants|Answer patient call signals, signal lights, bells, or intercom systems to determine patients' needs. Turn or reposition bedridden patients. Provide physical support to assist patients to perform daily living activities, such as getting out of bed, bathing, dressing, using the toilet, standing, walking, or exercising. Review patients' dietary restrictions, food allergies, and preferences to ensure patient receives appropriate diet. Measure and record food and liquid intake or urinary and fecal output, reporting changes to medical or nursing staff. Record vital signs, such as temperature, blood pressure, pulse, or respiration rate, as directed by medical or nursing staff. Gather information from caregivers, nurses, or physicians about patient condition, treatment plans, or appropriate activities. Observe or examine patients to detect symptoms that may require medical attention, such as bruises, open wounds, or blood in urine. Document or otherwise report observations of patient behavior, complaints, or physical symptoms to nurses. Remind patients to take medications or nutritional supplements. Feed patients or assist patients to eat or drink. Supply, collect, or empty bedpans. Undress, wash, and dress patients who are unable to do so for themselves. Lift or assist others to lift patients to move them on or off beds, examination tables, surgical tables, or stretchers. Communicate with patients to ascertain feelings or need for assistance or social and emotional support. Prepare or serve food trays. Clean and sanitize patient rooms, bathrooms, examination rooms, or other patient areas. Record height or weight of patients. Collect specimens, such as urine, feces, or sputum. Apply clean dressings, slings, stockings, or support bandages, under direction of nurse or physician. Change bed linens or make beds. Restock patient rooms with personal hygiene items, such as towels, washcloths, soap, or toilet paper. Exercise patients who are comatose, paralyzed, or have restricted mobility. Wash, groom, shave, or drape patients to prepare them for surgery, treatment, or examination. Assist nurses or physicians in the operation of medical equipment or provision of patient care. Administer medications or treatments, such as catheterizations, suppositories, irrigations, enemas, massages, or douches, as directed by a physician or nurse. Position or hold patients in position for surgical preparation. Transport patients to treatment units, testing units, operating rooms, or other areas, using wheelchairs, stretchers, or moveable beds. Provide information such as directions, visiting hours, or patient status information to visitors or callers. Transport specimens, laboratory items, or pharmacy items, ensuring proper documentation and delivery to authorized personnel. Set up treating or testing equipment, such as oxygen tents, portable radiograph (x-ray) equipment, or overhead irrigation bottles, as directed by a physician or nurse. Explain medical instructions to patients or family members. Stock or issue medical supplies, such as dressing packs or treatment trays.
31-1015| Orderlies|Answer patient call signals, signal lights, bells, or intercom systems to determine patients' needs. Carry messages or documents between departments. Change soiled linens, such as bed linens, drapes, or cubicle curtains. Clean and sanitize patient rooms, bathrooms, examination rooms, or other patient areas. Clean equipment, such as wheelchairs, hospital beds, or portable medical equipment, documenting needed repairs or maintenance. Collect and transport infectious or hazardous waste in closed containers for sterilization or disposal, in accordance with applicable law, standards, or policies. Collect soiled linen or trash. Disinfect or sterilize equipment or supplies, using germicides or sterilizing equipment. Lift or assist others to lift patients to move them on or off beds, examination tables, surgical tables, or stretchers. Position or hold patients in position for surgical preparation. Respond to emergency situations, such as emergency medical calls, security calls, or fire alarms. Restrain patients to prevent violence or injury or to assist physicians or nurses to administer treatments. Serve or collect food trays. Stock or issue medical supplies, such as dressing packs or treatment trays. Stock utility rooms, nonmedical storage rooms, or cleaning carts with supplies. Supply, collect, or empty bedpans. Transport bodies to the morgue. Transport patients to treatment units, testing units, operating rooms, or other areas using wheelchairs, stretchers, or moveable beds. Transport portable medical equipment or medical supplies between rooms or departments. Transport specimens, laboratory items, or pharmacy items, ensuring proper documentation and delivery to authorized personnel. Turn or reposition bedridden patients, alone or with assistance, to prevent bedsores. Provide physical support to patients to assist them to perform daily living activities, such as getting out of bed, bathing, dressing, using the toilet, standing, walking, or exercising. Separate collected materials for disposal, recycling, or reuse, in accordance with environmental policies. Take and record vital signs, such as temperature, blood pressure, pulse rate, or respiration rate, as directed by medical or nursing staff.
31-2011| Occupational Therapy Assistants|Select therapy activities to fit patients' needs and capabilities. Monitor patients' performance in therapy activities, providing encouragement. Instruct, or assist in instructing, patients and families in home programs, basic living skills, or the care and use of adaptive equipment. Maintain and promote a positive attitude toward clients and their treatment programs. Observe and record patients' progress, attitudes, and behavior and maintain this information in client records. Aid patients in dressing and grooming themselves. Implement, or assist occupational therapists with implementing, treatment plans designed to help clients function independently. Communicate and collaborate with other healthcare professionals involved with the care of a patient. Evaluate the daily living skills or capacities of physically, developmentally, or emotionally disabled clients. Attend continuing education classes. Report to supervisors, verbally or in writing, on patients' progress, attitudes, and behavior. Alter treatment programs to obtain better results if treatment is not having the intended effect. Work under the direction of occupational therapists to plan, implement, or administer educational, vocational, or recreational programs that restore or enhance performance in individuals with functional impairments. Teach patients how to deal constructively with their emotions. Demonstrate therapy techniques, such as manual or creative arts or games. Perform clerical duties, such as scheduling appointments, collecting data, or documenting health insurance billings. Assemble, clean, or maintain equipment or materials for patient use. Attend care plan meetings to review patient progress and update care plans. Order any needed educational or treatment supplies. Transport patients to and from the occupational therapy work area. Design, fabricate, or repair assistive devices or make adaptive changes to equipment or environments. Assist educational specialists or clinical psychologists in administering situational or diagnostic tests to measure client's abilities or progress.
31-2012| Occupational Therapy Aides|Observe patients' attendance, progress, attitudes, and accomplishments and record and maintain information in client records. Encourage patients and attend to their physical needs to facilitate the attainment of therapeutic goals. Report to supervisors or therapists, verbally or in writing, on patients' progress, attitudes, attendance, and accomplishments. Supervise patients in choosing and completing work assignments or arts and crafts projects. Manage intradepartmental infection control and equipment security. Evaluate the living skills and capacities of physically, developmentally, or emotionally disabled clients. Prepare and maintain work area, materials, and equipment and maintain inventory of treatment and educational supplies. Transport patients to and from the occupational therapy work area. Instruct patients and families in work, social, and living skills, the care and use of adaptive equipment, and other skills to facilitate home and work adjustment to disability. Assist occupational therapists in planning, implementing, and administering therapy programs to restore, reinforce, and enhance performance, using selected activities and special equipment. Demonstrate therapy techniques, such as manual and creative arts and games. Adjust and repair assistive devices and make adaptive changes to other equipment and to environments. Perform clerical, administrative, and secretarial duties, such as answering phones, restocking and ordering supplies, filling out paperwork, and scheduling appointments. Assist educational specialists or clinical psychologists in administering situational or diagnostic tests to measure client's abilities or progress. Accompany patients on outings, providing transportation when necessary.
31-2021| Physical Therapist Assistants|Instruct, motivate, safeguard, and assist patients as they practice exercises or functional activities. Observe patients during treatments to compile and evaluate data on their responses and progress and provide results to physical therapist in person or through progress notes. Confer with physical therapy staff or others to discuss and evaluate patient information for planning, modifying, or coordinating treatment. Administer active or passive manual therapeutic exercises, therapeutic massage, aquatic physical therapy, or heat, light, sound, or electrical modality treatments, such as ultrasound. Measure patients' range-of-joint motion, body parts, or vital signs to determine effects of treatments or for patient evaluations. Communicate with or instruct caregivers or family members on patient therapeutic activities or treatment plans. Transport patients to and from treatment areas, lifting and transferring them according to positioning requirements. Secure patients into or onto therapy equipment. Train patients in the use of orthopedic braces, prostheses, or supportive devices. Assist patients to dress, undress, or put on and remove supportive devices, such as braces, splints, or slings. Clean work area and check and store equipment after treatment. Fit patients for orthopedic braces, prostheses, or supportive devices, such as crutches. Monitor operation of equipment and record use of equipment and administration of treatment. Attend or conduct continuing education courses, seminars, or in-service activities. Perform clerical duties, such as taking inventory, ordering supplies, answering telephone, taking messages, or filling out forms. Perform postural drainage, percussions, or vibrations or teach deep breathing exercises to treat respiratory conditions. Administer traction to relieve neck or back pain, using intermittent or static traction equipment. Prepare treatment areas and electrotherapy equipment for use by physiotherapists.
31-2022| Physical Therapist Aides|Clean and organize work area and disinfect equipment after treatment. Instruct, motivate, safeguard, or assist patients practicing exercises or functional activities, under direction of medical staff. Record treatment given and equipment used. Administer active or passive manual therapeutic exercises, therapeutic massage, or heat, light, sound, water, or electrical modality treatments, such as ultrasound. Transport patients to and from treatment areas, using wheelchairs or providing standing support. Change linens, such as bed sheets and pillow cases. Secure patients into or onto therapy equipment. Schedule patient appointments with physical therapists and coordinate therapists' schedules. Observe patients during treatment to compile and evaluate data on patients' responses and progress and report to physical therapist. Confer with physical therapy staff or others to discuss and evaluate patient information for planning, modifying, or coordinating treatment. Arrange treatment supplies to keep them in order. Perform clerical duties, such as taking inventory, ordering supplies, answering telephone, taking messages, or filling out forms. Maintain equipment or furniture to keep it in good working condition, including performing the assembly or disassembly of equipment or accessories. Assist patients to dress, undress, or put on and remove supportive devices, such as braces, splints, or slings. Measure patient's range-of-joint motion, body parts, or vital signs to determine effects of treatments or for patient evaluations. Administer traction to relieve neck or back pain, using intermittent or static traction equipment. Train patients to use orthopedic braces, prostheses, or supportive devices. Fit patients for orthopedic braces, prostheses, or supportive devices, adjusting fit as needed. Participate in patient care tasks, such as assisting with passing food trays, feeding residents, or bathing residents on bed rest.
31-9011| Massage Therapists|Massage and knead muscles and soft tissues of the body to provide treatment for medical conditions, injuries, or wellness maintenance. Confer with clients about their medical histories and problems with stress or pain to determine how massage will be most helpful. Apply finger and hand pressure to specific points of the body. Maintain treatment records. Assess clients' soft tissue condition, joint quality and function, muscle strength, and range of motion. Treat clients in professional settings or travel to clients' offices and homes. Provide clients with guidance and information about techniques for postural improvement and stretching, strengthening, relaxation, and rehabilitative exercises. Develop and propose client treatment plans that specify which types of massage are to be used. Refer clients to other types of therapists when necessary. Consult with other health care professionals, such as physiotherapists, chiropractors, physicians, and psychologists, to develop treatment plans for clients. Perform other adjunctive therapies or treatment techniques in addition to massage. Prepare and blend oils and apply the blends to clients' skin.
31-9091| Dental Assistants|Prepare patient, sterilize or disinfect instruments, set up instrument trays, prepare materials, or assist dentist during dental procedures. Record treatment information in patient records. Expose dental diagnostic x-rays. Take and record medical and dental histories and vital signs of patients. Assist dentist in management of medical or dental emergencies. Provide postoperative instructions prescribed by dentist. Instruct patients in oral hygiene and plaque control programs. Order and monitor dental supplies and equipment inventory. Fabricate temporary restorations or custom impressions from preliminary impressions. Make preliminary impressions for study casts and occlusal registrations for mounting study casts. Pour, trim, and polish study casts. Clean and polish removable appliances. Clean teeth, using dental instruments. Fabricate and fit orthodontic appliances and materials for patients, such as retainers, wires, or bands. Schedule appointments, prepare bills and receive payment for dental services, complete insurance forms, and maintain records, manually or using computer. Apply protective coating of fluoride to teeth.
31-9092| Medical Assistants|Record patients' medical history, vital statistics, or information such as test results in medical records. Prepare treatment rooms for patient examinations, keeping the rooms neat and clean. Interview patients to obtain medical information and measure their vital signs, weight, and height. Show patients to examination rooms and prepare them for the physician. Prepare and administer medications as directed by a physician. Collect blood, tissue, or other laboratory specimens, log the specimens, and prepare them for testing. Authorize drug refills and provide prescription information to pharmacies. Explain treatment procedures, medications, diets, or physicians' instructions to patients. Clean and sterilize instruments and dispose of contaminated supplies. Perform routine laboratory tests and sample analyses. Perform general office duties, such as answering telephones, taking dictation, or completing insurance forms. Greet and log in patients arriving at office or clinic. Schedule appointments for patients. Help physicians examine and treat patients, handing them instruments or materials or performing such tasks as giving injections or removing sutures. Contact medical facilities or departments to schedule patients for tests or admission. Inventory and order medical, lab, or office supplies or equipment. Operate x-ray, electrocardiogram (EKG), or other equipment to administer routine diagnostic tests. Change dressings on wounds. Set up medical laboratory equipment. Keep financial records or perform other bookkeeping duties, such as handling credit or collections or mailing monthly statements to patients.
31-9093| Medical Equipment Preparers|Operate and maintain steam autoclaves, keeping records of loads completed, items in loads, and maintenance procedures performed. Clean instruments to prepare them for sterilization. Record sterilizer test results. Organize and assemble routine or specialty surgical instrument trays or other sterilized supplies, filling special requests as needed. Examine equipment to detect leaks, worn or loose parts, or other indications of disrepair. Report defective equipment to appropriate supervisors or staff. Maintain records of inventory or equipment usage and order medical instruments or supplies when inventory is low. Stock crash carts or other medical supplies. Start equipment and observe gauges and equipment operation to detect malfunctions and to ensure equipment is operating to prescribed standards. Check sterile supplies to ensure that they are not outdated. Attend hospital in-service programs related to areas of work specialization. Disinfect and sterilize equipment such as respirators, hospital beds, or oxygen or dialysis equipment, using sterilizers, aerators, or washers. Purge wastes from equipment by connecting equipment to water sources and flushing water through systems. Deliver equipment to specified hospital locations or to patients' residences. Install and set up medical equipment, using hand tools. Assist hospital staff with patient care duties, such as providing transportation or setting up traction.
31-9094| Medical Transcriptionists|Take dictation using shorthand, a stenotype machine, or headsets and transcribing machines. Return dictated reports in printed or electronic form for physician's review, signature, and corrections and for inclusion in patients' medical records. Review and edit transcribed reports or dictated material for spelling, grammar, clarity, consistency, and proper medical terminology. Transcribe dictation for a variety of medical reports, such as patient histories, physical examinations, emergency room visits, operations, chart reviews, consultation, or discharge summaries. Distinguish between homonyms and recognize inconsistencies and mistakes in medical terms, referring to dictionaries, drug references, and other sources on anatomy, physiology, and medicine. Translate medical jargon and abbreviations into their expanded forms to ensure the accuracy of patient and health care facility records. Produce medical reports, correspondence, records, patient-care information, statistics, medical research, and administrative material. Identify mistakes in reports and check with doctors to obtain the correct information. Perform data entry and data retrieval services, providing data for inclusion in medical records and for transmission to physicians. Set up and maintain medical files and databases, including records such as x-ray, lab, and procedure reports, medical histories, diagnostic workups, admission and discharge summaries, and clinical resumes. Perform a variety of clerical and office tasks, such as handling incoming and outgoing mail, completing and submitting insurance claims, typing, filing, and operating office machines. Receive patients, schedule appointments, and maintain patient records. Answer inquiries concerning the progress of medical cases, within the limits of confidentiality laws. Decide which information should be included or excluded in reports. Receive and screen telephone calls and visitors.
31-9095| Pharmacy Aides|Greet customers and help them locate merchandise. Accept prescriptions for filling, gathering and processing necessary information. Operate cash register to process cash or credit sales. Answer telephone inquiries, referring callers to pharmacist when necessary. Receive, store, and inventory pharmaceutical supplies or medications, check for out-dated medications, and notify pharmacist when inventory levels are low. Unpack, sort, count, and label incoming merchandise, including items requiring special handling or refrigeration. Restock storage areas, replenishing items on shelves. Maintain and clean equipment, work areas, or shelves. Prepare prescription labels by typing or operating a computer and printer. Compound, package, and label pharmaceutical products, under direction of pharmacist. Provide customers with information about the uses, effects, or interactions of drugs. Process medical insurance claims, posting bill amounts and calculating copayments. Calculate anticipated drug usage for a prescribed period. Perform clerical tasks, such as filing, compiling and maintaining prescription records, or composing letters. Prepare, maintain, and record records of inventories, receipts, purchases, or deliveries, using a variety of computer screen formats. Deliver medication to treatment areas, living units, residences, or clinics, using various means of transportation. Operate capsule or tablet counting machine that automatically distributes a certain number of capsules or tablets into smaller containers.
31-9096| Veterinary Assistants and Laboratory Animal Caretakers|Hold or restrain animals during veterinary procedures. Clean and maintain kennels, animal holding areas, examination or operating rooms, or animal loading or unloading facilities to control the spread of disease. Fill medication prescriptions. Assist veterinarians in examining animals to determine the nature of illnesses or injuries. Monitor animals recovering from surgery and notify veterinarians of any unusual changes or symptoms. Clean, maintain, and sterilize instruments or equipment. Examine animals to detect behavioral changes or clinical symptoms that could indicate illness or injury. Educate or advise clients on animal health care, nutrition, or behavior problems. Administer medication, immunizations, or blood plasma to animals as prescribed by veterinarians. Collect laboratory specimens, such as blood, urine, or feces for testing. Prepare surgical equipment and pass instruments or materials to veterinarians during surgical procedures. Prepare feed for animals according to specific instructions, such as diet lists or schedules. Provide emergency first aid to sick or injured animals. Perform routine laboratory tests or diagnostic tests, such as taking or developing x-rays. Exercise animals or provide them with companionship. Prepare examination or treatment rooms by stocking them with appropriate supplies. Provide assistance with euthanasia of animals or disposal of corpses. Record information relating to animal genealogy, feeding schedules, appearance, behavior, or breeding. Perform office reception duties, such as scheduling appointments or helping customers. Perform hygiene-related duties, such as clipping animals' claws or cleaning and polishing teeth. Perform accounting duties, such as bookkeeping, billing customers for services, or maintaining inventories. Sell pet food or supplies to customers. Dust, spray, or bathe animals to control insect pests. Administer anesthetics during surgery and monitor the effects on animals. Perform enemas, catheterizations, ear flushes, intravenous feedings, or gavages. Write reports, maintain research information, or perform clerical duties. Groom, trim, or clip animals' coats.
31-9097| Phlebotomists|Match laboratory requisition forms to specimen tubes. Dispose of contaminated sharps, in accordance with applicable laws, standards, and policies. Draw blood from veins by vacuum tube, syringe, or butterfly venipuncture methods. Dispose of blood or other biohazard fluids or tissue, in accordance with applicable laws, standards, or policies. Draw blood from capillaries by dermal puncture, such as heel or finger stick methods. Enter patient, specimen, insurance, or billing information into computer. Organize or clean blood-drawing trays, ensuring that all instruments are sterile and all needles, syringes, or related items are of first-time use. Collect fluid or tissue samples, using appropriate collection procedures. Collect specimens at specific time intervals for tests, such as those assessing therapeutic drug levels. Transport specimens or fluid samples from collection sites to laboratories. Process blood or other fluid samples for further analysis by other medical professionals. Provide sample analysis results to physicians to assist diagnosis. Document route of specimens from collection to laboratory analysis and diagnosis. Explain fluid or tissue collection procedures to patients. Conduct standards tests, such as blood alcohol, blood culture, oral glucose tolerance, glucose screening, blood smears, or peak and trough drug levels tests. Train other medical personnel in phlebotomy or laboratory techniques. Draw blood from arteries, using arterial collection techniques. Determine donor suitability, according to interview results, vital signs, and medical history. Monitor blood or plasma donors during and after procedures to ensure health, safety, and comfort. Perform saline flushes or dispense anticoagulant drugs, such as Heparin, through intravenous (IV) lines, in accordance with licensing restrictions and under the direction of a medical doctor. Conduct hemoglobin tests to ensure donor iron levels are normal. Calibrate or maintain machines, such as those used for plasma collection. Administer subcutaneous or intramuscular injects, in accordance with licensing restrictions. Serve refreshments to donors to ensure absorption of sugar into their systems.
33-1011| First-Line Supervisors of Correctional Officers|Maintain order, discipline, and security within assigned areas in accordance with relevant rules, regulations, policies, and laws. Take, receive, or check periodic inmate counts. Maintain knowledge of, comply with, and enforce all institutional policies, rules, procedures, and regulations. Respond to emergencies, such as escapes. Supervise and direct the work of correctional officers to ensure the safe custody, discipline, and welfare of inmates. Restrain, secure, or control offenders, using chemical agents, firearms, or other weapons of force as necessary. Resolve problems between inmates. Supervise or perform searches of inmates or their quarters to locate contraband items. Monitor behavior of subordinates to ensure alert, courteous, and professional behavior toward inmates, parolees, fellow employees, visitors, and the public. Complete administrative paperwork or supervise the preparation or maintenance of records, forms, or reports. Instruct employees or provide on-the-job training. Carry injured offenders or employees to safety and provide emergency first aid when necessary. Supervise activities such as searches, shakedowns, riot control, or institutional tours. Set up employee work schedules. Develop work or security procedures. Conduct roll calls of correctional officers. Supervise or provide security for offenders performing tasks, such as construction, maintenance, laundry, food service, or other industrial or agricultural operations. Rate behavior of inmates, promoting acceptable attitudes and behaviors to those with low ratings. Transfer or transport offenders on foot or by driving vehicles, such as trailers, vans, or buses. Convey correctional officers' or inmates' complaints to superiors. Review offender information to identify issues that require special attention. Examine incoming or outgoing mail to ensure conformance with regulations.
33-1012| First-Line Supervisors of Police and Detectives|Supervise and coordinate the investigation of criminal cases, offering guidance and expertise to investigators, and ensuring that procedures are conducted in accordance with laws and regulations. Maintain logs, prepare reports, and direct the preparation, handling, and maintenance of departmental records. Explain police operations to subordinates to assist them in performing their job duties. Cooperate with court personnel and officials from other law enforcement agencies and testify in court as necessary. Review contents of written orders to ensure adherence to legal requirements. Investigate and resolve personnel problems within organization and charges of misconduct against staff. Direct collection, preparation, and handling of evidence and personal property of prisoners. Inform personnel of changes in regulations and policies, implications of new or amended laws, and new techniques of police work. Train staff in proper police work procedures. Monitor and evaluate the job performance of subordinates, and authorize promotions and transfers. Prepare work schedules and assign duties to subordinates. Conduct raids and order detention of witnesses and suspects for questioning. Discipline staff for violation of department rules and regulations. Develop, implement and revise departmental policies and procedures. Inspect facilities, supplies, vehicles, and equipment to ensure conformance to standards. Requisition and issue equipment and supplies. Meet with civic, educational, and community groups to develop community programs and events, and to discuss law enforcement subjects. Prepare news releases and respond to police correspondence. Prepare budgets and manage expenditures of department funds. Direct release or transfer of prisoners.
33-1021| First-Line Supervisors of Fire Fighting and Prevention Workers|Assign firefighters to jobs at strategic locations to facilitate rescue of persons and maximize application of extinguishing agents. Provide emergency medical services as required, and perform light to heavy rescue functions at emergencies. Assess nature and extent of fire, condition of building, danger to adjacent buildings, and water supply status to determine crew or company requirements. Instruct and drill fire department personnel in assigned duties, including firefighting, medical care, hazardous materials response, fire prevention, and related subjects. Inspect and test new and existing fire protection systems, fire detection systems, and fire safety equipment to ensure that they are operating properly. Compile and maintain records on personnel, accidents, equipment, and supplies. Perform maintenance and minor repairs on firefighting equipment, including vehicles, and write and submit proposals to modify, replace, and repair equipment. Prepare activity reports listing fire call locations, actions taken, fire types and probable causes, damage estimates, and situation dispositions. Evaluate the performance of assigned firefighting personnel. Direct the training of firefighters, assigning of instructors to training classes, and providing of supervisors with reports on training progress and status. Maintain required maps and records. Recommend personnel actions related to disciplinary procedures, performance, leaves of absence, and grievances. Present and interpret fire prevention and fire code information to citizens' groups, organizations, contractors, engineers, and developers. Direct firefighters in station maintenance duties, and participate in these duties. Attend in-service training classes to remain current in knowledge of codes, laws, ordinances, and regulations. Evaluate fire station procedures to ensure efficiency and enforcement of departmental regulations. Coordinate the distribution of fire prevention promotional materials. Direct investigation of cases of suspected arson, hazards, and false alarms and submit reports outlining findings. Develop or review building fire exit plans. Study and interpret fire safety codes to establish procedures for issuing permits to handle hazardous or flammable substances. Supervise and participate in the inspection of properties to ensure that they are in compliance with applicable fire codes, ordinances, laws, regulations, and standards. Oversee review of new building plans to ensure compliance with laws, ordinances, and administrative rules for public fire safety. Document efforts taken to bring property owners into compliance with laws, codes, regulations, ordinances, and standards. Participate in creating fire safety guidelines and evacuation schemes for nonresidential buildings. Identify corrective actions needed to bring properties into compliance with applicable fire codes and ordinances and conduct follow-up inspections to see if corrective actions have been taken. Conduct fire drills for building occupants and report on the outcomes of such drills. Recommend to proper authorities possible fire code revisions, additions, and deletions. Report and issue citations for fire code violations found during inspections, testifying in court about violations when required.Communicate fire details to superiors, subordinates, or interagency dispatch centers, using two-way radios. Evaluate size, location, and condition of forest fires. Serve as a working leader of an engine, hand, helicopter, or prescribed fire crew of three or more firefighters. Maintain fire suppression equipment in good condition, checking equipment periodically to ensure that it is ready for use. Train workers in skills such as parachute jumping, fire suppression, aerial observation, or radio communication, in the classroom or on the job. Request and dispatch crews and position equipment so fires can be contained safely and effectively. Operate wildland fire engines or hoselays. Recruit or hire forest firefighting personnel. Maintain knowledge of forest fire laws and fire prevention techniques and tactics. Monitor prescribed burns to ensure that they are conducted safely and effectively. Direct and supervise prescribed burn projects and prepare postburn reports, analyzing burn conditions and results. Schedule employee work assignments and set work priorities. Identify staff training and development needs to ensure that appropriate training can be arranged. Monitor fire suppression expenditures to ensure that they are necessary and reasonable. Drive crew carriers to transport firefighters to fire sites. Inspect stations, uniforms, equipment, or recreation areas to ensure compliance with safety standards, taking corrective action as necessary. Regulate open burning by issuing burning permits, inspecting problem sites, issuing citations for violations of laws and ordinances, or educating the public in proper burning practices. Perform administrative duties, such as compiling and maintaining records, completing forms, preparing reports, or composing correspondence. Review and evaluate employee performance. Recommend equipment modifications or new equipment purchases. Investigate special fire issues, such as railroad fire problems, right-of-way burning, or slash disposal problems. Lead work crews in the maintenance of structures or access roads in forest areas. Educate the public about forest fire prevention by participating in activities such as exhibits or presentations or by distributing promotional materials. Observe fires or crews from air to determine firefighting force requirements or to note changing conditions that will affect firefighting efforts. Direct investigations of suspected arson in wildfires, working closely with other investigating agencies. Appraise damage caused by fires and prepare damage reports.
33-2011| Firefighters|Rescue victims from burning buildings and accident sites. Search burning buildings to locate fire victims. Administer first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation to injured persons. Dress with equipment such as fire-resistant clothing and breathing apparatus. Drive and operate fire fighting vehicles and equipment. Move toward the source of a fire, using knowledge of types of fires, construction design, building materials, and physical layout of properties. Respond to fire alarms and other calls for assistance, such as automobile and industrial accidents. Assess fires and situations and report conditions to superiors to receive instructions, using two-way radios. Position and climb ladders to gain access to upper levels of buildings, or to rescue individuals from burning structures. Create openings in buildings for ventilation or entrance, using axes, chisels, crowbars, electric saws, or core cutters. Lay hose lines and connect them to water supplies. Operate pumps connected to high-pressure hoses. Collaborate with police to respond to accidents, disasters, and arson investigation calls. Take action to contain hazardous chemicals that might catch fire, leak, or spill. Select and attach hose nozzles, depending on fire type, and direct streams of water or chemicals onto fires. Participate in fire drills and demonstrations of fire fighting techniques. Prepare written reports that detail specifics of fire incidents. Participate in physical training activities to maintain a high level of physical fitness. Participate in courses, seminars and conferences, and study fire science literature, to learn firefighting techniques. Inspect fire sites after flames have been extinguished to ensure that there is no further danger. Clean and maintain fire stations and fire fighting equipment and apparatus. Inspect buildings for fire hazards and compliance with fire prevention ordinances, testing and checking smoke alarms and fire suppression equipment as necessary. Inform and educate the public on fire prevention. Protect property from water and smoke, using waterproof salvage covers, smoke ejectors, and deodorants. Establish firelines to prevent unauthorized persons from entering areas near fires. Salvage property by removing broken glass, pumping out water, and ventilating buildings to remove smoke. Spray foam onto runways, extinguish fires, and rescue aircraft crew and passengers in air-crash emergencies.Collaborate with other firefighters as a member of a firefighting crew. Extinguish flames and embers to suppress fires, using shovels or engine- or hand-driven water or chemical pumps. Test and maintain tools, equipment, jump gear, and parachutes to ensure readiness for fire suppression activities. Maintain contact with fire dispatchers at all times to notify them of the need for additional firefighters and supplies, or to detail any difficulties encountered. Rescue fire victims, and administer emergency medical aid. Establish water supplies, connect hoses, and direct water onto fires. Patrol burned areas after fires to locate and eliminate hot spots that may restart fires. Inform and educate the public about fire prevention. Participate in physical training to maintain high levels of physical fitness. Orient self in relation to fire, using compass and map, and collect supplies and equipment dropped by parachute. Fell trees, cut and clear brush, and dig trenches to create firelines, using axes, chainsaws or shovels. Maintain knowledge of current firefighting practices by participating in drills and by attending seminars, conventions, and conferences. Maintain fire equipment and firehouse living quarters. Operate pumps connected to high-pressure hoses. Transport personnel and cargo to and from fire areas. Take action to contain any hazardous chemicals that could catch fire, leak, or spill. Organize fire caches, positioning equipment for the most effective response. Participate in fire prevention and inspection programs. Perform forest maintenance and improvement tasks such as cutting brush, planting trees, building trails and marking timber. Serve as fully trained lead helicopter crewmember and as helispot manager. Observe forest areas from fire lookout towers to spot potential problems.
33-2021| Fire Inspectors and Investigators|Inspect buildings to locate hazardous conditions and fire code violations, such as accumulations of combustible material, electrical wiring problems, and inadequate or non-functional fire exits. Present and explain fire code requirements and fire prevention information to architects, contractors, attorneys, engineers, developers, fire service personnel, and the general public. Identify corrective actions necessary to bring properties into compliance with applicable fire codes, laws, regulations, and standards, and explain these measures to property owners or their representatives. Attend training classes to maintain current knowledge of fire prevention, safety, and firefighting procedures. Conduct fire code compliance follow-ups to ensure that corrective actions have been taken in cases where violations were found. Write detailed reports of fire inspections performed, fire code violations observed, and corrective recommendations offered. Inspect properties that store, handle, and use hazardous materials to ensure compliance with laws, codes, and regulations, and issue hazardous materials permits to facilities found in compliance. Develop or review fire exit plans. Inspect and test fire protection or fire detection systems to verify that such systems are installed in accordance with appropriate laws, codes, ordinances, regulations, and standards. Conduct inspections and acceptance testing of newly installed fire protection systems. Review blueprints and plans for new or remodeled buildings to ensure the structures meet fire safety codes. Inspect liquefied petroleum installations, storage containers, and transportation and delivery systems for compliance with fire laws. Develop and coordinate fire prevention programs, such as false alarm billing, fire inspection reporting, and hazardous materials management. Conduct fire exit drills to monitor and evaluate evacuation procedures. Teach public education programs on fire safety and prevention. Testify in court regarding fire code and fire safety issues. Recommend changes to fire prevention, inspection, and fire code endorsement procedures. Arrange for the replacement of defective fire fighting equipment and for repair of fire alarm and sprinkler systems, making minor repairs such as servicing fire extinguishers when feasible. Investigate causes of fires, collecting and preparing evidence and presenting it in court when necessary. Issue permits for public assemblies. Search for clues as to the cause of a fire, once the fire is completely extinguished. Supervise staff, training them, planning their work, and evaluating their performance. Serve court appearance summonses or condemnation notices on parties responsible for violations of fire codes, laws, and ordinances. Collect fees for permits and licenses.Examine fire sites and collect evidence such as glass, metal fragments, charred wood, and accelerant residue for use in determining the cause of a fire. Photograph damage and evidence related to causes of fires or explosions to document investigation findings. Analyze evidence and other information to determine probable cause of fire or explosion. Package collected pieces of evidence in securely closed containers, such as bags, crates, or boxes, to protect them. Testify in court cases involving fires, suspected arson, and false alarms. Prepare and maintain reports of investigation results, and records of convicted arsonists and arson suspects. Subpoena and interview witnesses, property owners, and building occupants to obtain information and sworn testimony. Coordinate efforts with other organizations, such as law enforcement agencies. Swear out warrants, and arrest and process suspected arsonists. Test sites and materials to establish facts, such as burn patterns and flash points of materials, using test equipment. Instruct children about the dangers of fire. Dust evidence or portions of fire scenes for latent fingerprints. Conduct internal investigation to determine negligence and violation of laws and regulations by fire department employees.
33-2022| Forest Fire Inspectors and Prevention Specialists|Relay messages about emergencies, accidents, locations of crew and personnel, and fire hazard conditions. Direct crews working on firelines during forest fires. Estimate sizes and characteristics of fires, and report findings to base camps by radio or telephone. Administer regulations regarding sanitation, fire prevention, violation corrections, and related forest regulations. Extinguish smaller fires with portable extinguishers, shovels, and axes. Locate forest fires on area maps, using azimuth sighters and known landmarks. Maintain records and logbooks. Examine and inventory firefighting equipment, such as axes, fire hoses, shovels, pumps, buckets, and fire extinguishers, to determine amount and condition. Direct maintenance and repair of firefighting equipment, or requisition new equipment. Restrict public access and recreational use of forest lands during critical fire seasons. Patrol assigned areas, looking for forest fires, hazardous conditions, and weather phenomena.
33-3011| Bailiffs|Screen persons entering courthouse using magnetometers, x-ray machines, and other devices to collect and retain unauthorized firearms and other contraband. Provide security by patrolling interior and exterior of courthouse and escorting judges and other court employees. Enforce courtroom rules of behavior and warn persons not to smoke or disturb court procedure. Maintain order in courtroom during trial and guard jury from outside contact. Check courtroom for security and cleanliness and assure availability of sundry supplies, such as notepads, for use by judge, jurors, and attorneys. Screen, control, and handle evidence and exhibits during court proceedings. Report need for police or medical assistance to sheriff's office. Stop people from entering courtroom while judge charges jury. Announce entrance of judge. Escort prisoners to and from courthouse and maintain custody of prisoners during court proceedings. Provide jury escort to restaurant and other areas outside of courtroom to prevent jury contact with public. Guard lodging of sequestered jury. Maintain court docket.
33-3012| Correctional Officers and Jailers|Conduct head counts to ensure that each prisoner is present. Monitor conduct of prisoners in housing unit, or during work or recreational activities, according to established policies, regulations, and procedures, to prevent escape or violence. Inspect conditions of locks, window bars, grills, doors, and gates at correctional facilities to ensure security and help prevent escapes. Record information, such as prisoner identification, charges, and incidences of inmate disturbance, and keep daily logs of prisoner activities. Search prisoners and vehicles and conduct shakedowns of cells for valuables and contraband, such as weapons or drugs. Use weapons, handcuffs, and physical force to maintain discipline and order among prisoners. Inspect mail for the presence of contraband. Guard facility entrances to screen visitors. Maintain records of prisoners' identification and charges. Process or book convicted individuals into prison. Settle disputes between inmates. Conduct fire, safety, and sanitation inspections. Provide to supervisors oral and written reports of the quality and quantity of work performed by inmates, inmate disturbances and rule violations, and unusual occurrences. Participate in required job training. Take prisoners into custody and escort to locations within and outside of facility, such as visiting room, courtroom, or airport. Serve meals, distribute commissary items, and dispense prescribed medication to prisoners. Counsel inmates and respond to legitimate questions, concerns, and requests. Drive passenger vehicles and trucks used to transport inmates to other institutions, courtrooms, hospitals, and work sites. Use nondisciplinary tools and equipment such as a computer. Assign duties to inmates, providing instructions as needed. Investigate crimes that have occurred within an institution, or assist police in their investigations of crimes and inmates. Issue clothing, tools, and other authorized items to inmates. Arrange daily schedules for prisoners including library visits, work assignments, family visits, and counseling appointments. Search for and recapture escapees. Supervise and coordinate work of other correctional service officers. Sponsor inmate recreational activities such as newspapers and self-help groups.
33-3021| Detectives and Criminal Investigators|Provide testimony as a witness in court. Secure deceased body and obtain evidence from it, preventing bystanders from tampering with it prior to medical examiner's arrival. Examine crime scenes to obtain clues and evidence, such as loose hairs, fibers, clothing, or weapons. Obtain evidence from suspects. Record progress of investigation, maintain informational files on suspects, and submit reports to commanding officer or magistrate to authorize warrants. Check victims for signs of life, such as breathing and pulse. Prepare charges or responses to charges, or information for court cases, according to formalized procedures. Obtain facts or statements from complainants, witnesses, and accused persons and record interviews, using recording device. Prepare and serve search and arrest warrants. Note, mark, and photograph location of objects found, such as footprints, tire tracks, bullets and bloodstains, and take measurements of the scene. Preserve, process, and analyze items of evidence obtained from crime scenes and suspects, placing them in proper containers and destroying evidence no longer needed. Question individuals or observe persons and establishments to confirm information given to patrol officers. Secure persons at scene, keeping witnesses from conversing or leaving the scene before investigators arrive. Take photographs from all angles of relevant parts of a crime scene, including entrance and exit routes and streets and intersections. Analyze completed police reports to determine what additional information and investigative work is needed. Obtain summary of incident from officer in charge at crime scene, taking care to avoid disturbing evidence. Provide information to lab personnel concerning the source of an item of evidence and tests to be performed. Examine records and governmental agency files to find identifying data about suspects. Block or rope off scene and check perimeter to ensure that entire scene is secured. Summon medical help for injured individuals and alert medical personnel to take statements from them. Observe and photograph narcotic purchase transactions to compile evidence and protect undercover investigators. Organize scene search, assigning specific tasks and areas of search to individual officers and obtaining adequate lighting as necessary. Participate or assist in raids and arrests. Coordinate with outside agencies and serve on interagency task forces to combat specific types of crime. Note relevant details upon arrival at scene, such as time of day and weather conditions. Maintain surveillance of establishments to obtain identifying information on suspects. Notify command of situation and request assistance. Videotape scenes where possible, including collection of evidence, examination of victim at scene, and defendants and witnesses. Notify, or request notification of, medical examiner or district attorney representative. Monitor conditions of victims who are unconscious so that arrangements can be made to take statements if consciousness is regained. Schedule polygraph tests for consenting parties and record results of test interpretations for presentation with findings.Maintain records of evidence and write and review reports. Package, store and retrieve evidence. Analyze and process evidence at crime scenes and in the laboratory, wearing protective equipment and using powders and chemicals. Dust selected areas of crime scene and lift latent fingerprints, adhering to proper preservation procedures. Photograph crime or accident scenes for evidence records. Submit evidence to supervisors, crime labs, or court officials for legal proceedings. Identify, compare, classify, and file fingerprints, using systems such as Automated Fingerprint Identification System (AFIS) or the Henry Classification System. Look for trace evidence, such as fingerprints, hairs, fibers, or shoe impressions, using alternative light sources when necessary. Testify in court and present evidence. Serve as technical advisor and coordinate with other law enforcement workers or legal personnel to exchange information on crime scene collection activities. Coordinate or conduct instructional classes or in-services, such as citizen police academy classes and crime scene training for other officers. Process film and prints from crime or accident scenes. Perform emergency work during off-hours. Interview victims, witnesses, suspects, and other law enforcement personnel.Prepare reports that detail investigation findings. Obtain and verify evidence by interviewing and observing suspects and witnesses or by analyzing records. Identify case issues and evidence needed, based on analysis of charges, complaints, or allegations of law violations. Investigate organized crime, public corruption, financial crime, copyright infringement, civil rights violations, bank robbery, extortion, kidnapping, and other violations of federal or state statutes. Record evidence and documents, using equipment such as cameras and photocopy machines. Obtain and use search and arrest warrants. Testify before grand juries concerning criminal activity investigations. Search for and collect evidence, such as fingerprints, using investigative equipment. Determine scope, timing, and direction of investigations. Collect and record physical information about arrested suspects, including fingerprints, height and weight measurements, and photographs. Analyze evidence in laboratories or in the field. Collaborate with other offices and agencies to exchange information and coordinate activities. Develop relationships with informants to obtain information related to cases. Perform undercover assignments and maintain surveillance, including monitoring authorized wiretaps. Collaborate with other authorities on activities such as surveillance, transcription, and research. Examine records to locate links in chains of evidence or information. Serve subpoenas or other official papers. Compare crime scene fingerprints with those from suspects or fingerprint files to identify perpetrators, using computers. Manage security programs designed to protect personnel, facilities, and information. Provide protection for individuals, such as government leaders, political candidates, and visiting foreign dignitaries. Administer counterterrorism and counternarcotics reward programs. Issue security clearances.Examine immigration applications, visas, and passports and interview persons to determine eligibility for admission, residence, and travel in the U.S. Detain persons found to be in violation of customs or immigration laws and arrange for legal action, such as deportation. Inspect cargo, baggage, and personal articles entering or leaving U.S. for compliance with revenue laws and U.S. customs regulations. Locate and seize contraband, undeclared merchandise, and vehicles, aircraft, or boats that contain such merchandise. Interpret and explain laws and regulations to travelers, prospective immigrants, shippers, and manufacturers. Institute civil and criminal prosecutions and cooperate with other law enforcement agencies in the investigation and prosecution of those in violation of immigration or customs laws. Testify regarding decisions at immigration appeals or in federal court. Record and report job-related activities, findings, transactions, violations, discrepancies, and decisions. Determine duty and taxes to be paid on goods. Collect samples of merchandise for examination, appraisal, or testing. Investigate applications for duty refunds and petition for remission or mitigation of penalties when warranted.Validate known intelligence with data from other sources. Gather, analyze, correlate, or evaluate information from a variety of resources, such as law enforcement databases. Prepare comprehensive written reports, presentations, maps, or charts based on research, collection, and analysis of intelligence data. Study activities relating to narcotics, money laundering, gangs, auto theft rings, terrorism, or other national security threats. Collaborate with representatives from other government and intelligence organizations to share information or coordinate intelligence activities. Evaluate records of communications, such as telephone calls, to plot activity and determine the size and location of criminal groups and members. Gather intelligence information by field observation, confidential information sources, or public records. Link or chart suspects to criminal organizations or events to determine activities and interrelationships. Study the assets of criminal suspects to determine the flow of money from or to targeted groups. Design, use, or maintain databases and software applications, such as geographic information systems (GIS) mapping and artificial intelligence tools. Predict future gang, organized crime, or terrorist activity, using analyses of intelligence data. Establish criminal profiles to aid in connecting criminal organizations with their members. Gather and evaluate information, using tools such as aerial photographs, radar equipment, or sensitive radio equipment. Interview, interrogate, or interact with witnesses or crime suspects to collect human intelligence. Study communication code languages or foreign languages to translate intelligence.
33-3031| Fish and Game Wardens|Patrol assigned areas by car, boat, airplane, horse, or on foot to enforce game, fish, or boating laws or to manage wildlife programs, lakes, or land. Compile and present evidence for court actions. Investigate hunting accidents or reports of fish or game law violations. Protect and preserve native wildlife, plants, or ecosystems. Issue warnings or citations and file reports as necessary. Serve warrants and make arrests. Provide assistance to other local law enforcement agencies as required. Promote or provide hunter or trapper safety training. Participate in search-and-rescue operations. Arrange for disposition of fish or game illegally taken or possessed. Seize equipment used in fish and game law violations. Address schools, civic groups, sporting clubs, or the media to disseminate information concerning wildlife conservation and regulations. Recommend revisions in hunting and trapping regulations or in animal management programs so that wildlife balances or habitats can be maintained. Inspect commercial operations relating to fish or wildlife, recreation, or protected areas. Survey areas and compile figures of bag counts of hunters to determine the effectiveness of control measures. Collect and report information on populations or conditions of fish and wildlife in their habitats, availability of game food or cover, or suspected pollution. Design or implement control measures to prevent or counteract damage caused by wildlife or people. Provide advice or information to park or reserve visitors. Investigate crop, property, or habitat damage or destruction or instances of water pollution to determine causes and to advise property owners of preventive measures. Issue licenses, permits, or other documentation. Document the extent of crop, property, or habitat damage and make financial loss estimates or compensation recommendations.
33-3041| Parking Enforcement Workers|Patrol an assigned area by vehicle or on foot to ensure public compliance with existing parking ordinance. Maintain close communications with dispatching personnel, using two-way radios or cell phones. Write warnings and citations for illegally parked vehicles. Mark tires of parked vehicles with chalk and record time of marking, and return at regular intervals to ensure that parking time limits are not exceeded. Respond to and make radio dispatch calls regarding parking violations and complaints. Train new or temporary staff. Identify vehicles in violation of parking codes, checking with dispatchers when necessary to confirm identities or to determine whether vehicles need to be booted or towed. Perform simple vehicle maintenance procedures such as checking oil and gas, and report mechanical problems to supervisors. Observe and report hazardous conditions such as missing traffic signals or signs, and street markings that need to be repainted. Investigate and answer complaints regarding contested parking citations, determining their validity and routing them appropriately. Maintain assigned equipment and supplies such as hand-held citation computers, citation books, rain gear, tire-marking chalk, and street cones. Provide information to the public regarding parking regulations and facilities, and the location of streets, buildings and points of interest. Appear in court at hearings regarding contested traffic citations. Make arrangements for illegally parked or abandoned vehicles to be towed, and direct tow-truck drivers to the correct vehicles. Perform traffic control duties such as setting up barricades and temporary signs, placing bags on parking meters to limit their use, or directing traffic. Provide assistance to motorists needing help with problems, such as flat tires, keys locked in cars, or dead batteries. Enter and retrieve information pertaining to vehicle registration, identification, and status, using hand-held computers. Collect coins deposited in meters. Prepare and maintain required records, including logs of parking enforcement activities, and records of contested citations. Locate lost, stolen, and counterfeit parking permits, and take necessary enforcement action. Wind parking meter clocks. Assign and review the work of subordinates.
33-3051| Police and Sheriff's Patrol Officers|Provide for public safety by maintaining order, responding to emergencies, protecting people and property, enforcing motor vehicle and criminal laws, and promoting good community relations. Record facts to prepare reports that document incidents and activities. Monitor, note, report, and investigate suspicious persons and situations, safety hazards, and unusual or illegal activity in patrol area. Identify, pursue, and arrest suspects and perpetrators of criminal acts. Patrol specific area on foot, horseback, or motorized conveyance, responding promptly to calls for assistance. Review facts of incidents to determine if criminal act or statute violations were involved. Render aid to accident victims and other persons requiring first aid for physical injuries. Investigate traffic accidents and other accidents to determine causes and to determine if a crime has been committed. Testify in court to present evidence or act as witness in traffic and criminal cases. Photograph or draw diagrams of crime or accident scenes and interview principals and eyewitnesses. Relay complaint and emergency-request information to appropriate agency dispatchers. Evaluate complaint and emergency-request information to determine response requirements. Process prisoners, and prepare and maintain records of prisoner bookings and prisoner status during booking and pre-trial process. Monitor traffic to ensure motorists observe traffic regulations and exhibit safe driving procedures. Issue citations or warnings to violators of motor vehicle ordinances. Direct traffic flow and reroute traffic in case of emergencies. Inform citizens of community services and recommend options to facilitate longer-term problem resolution. Provide road information to assist motorists. Inspect public establishments to ensure compliance with rules and regulations. Act as official escorts, such as when leading funeral processions or firefighters.Investigate illegal or suspicious activities. Drive vehicles or patrol specific areas to detect law violators, issue citations, and make arrests. Take control of accident scenes to maintain traffic flow, to assist accident victims, and to investigate causes. Verify that the proper legal charges have been made against law offenders. Record daily activities and submit logs and other related reports and paperwork to appropriate authorities. Execute arrest warrants, locating and taking persons into custody. Notify patrol units to take violators into custody or to provide needed assistance or medical aid. Serve statements of claims, subpoenas, summonses, jury summonses, orders to pay alimony, and other court orders. Question individuals entering secured areas to determine their business, directing and rerouting individuals as necessary. Patrol and guard courthouses, grand jury rooms, or assigned areas to provide security, enforce laws, maintain order, and arrest violators. Transport or escort prisoners and defendants en route to courtrooms, prisons or jails, attorneys' offices, or medical facilities. Locate and confiscate real or personal property, as directed by court order. Supervise law enforcement staff, such as jail staff, officers, and deputy sheriffs. Place people in protective custody. Manage jail operations and tend to jail inmates.
33-3052| Transit and Railroad Police|Patrol railroad yards, cars, stations, or other facilities to protect company property or shipments and to maintain order. Examine credentials of unauthorized persons attempting to enter secured areas. Apprehend or remove trespassers or thieves from railroad property or coordinate with law enforcement agencies in apprehensions and removals. Prepare reports documenting investigation activities and results. Investigate or direct investigations of freight theft, suspicious damage or loss of passengers' valuables, or other crimes on railroad property. Direct security activities at derailments, fires, floods, or strikes involving railroad property. Direct or coordinate the daily activities or training of security staff. Interview neighbors, associates, or former employers of job applicants to verify personal references or to obtain work history data. Record and verify seal numbers from boxcars containing frequently pilfered items, such as cigarettes or liquor, to detect tampering.
33-9011| Animal Control Workers|Investigate reports of animal attacks or animal cruelty, interviewing witnesses, collecting evidence, and writing reports. Capture and remove stray, uncontrolled, or abused animals from undesirable conditions, using nets, nooses, or tranquilizer darts as necessary. Examine animals for injuries or malnutrition, and arrange for any necessary medical treatment. Remove captured animals from animal-control service vehicles and place animals in shelter cages or other enclosures. Euthanize rabid, unclaimed, or severely injured animals. Supply animals with food, water, and personal care. Clean facilities and equipment such as dog pens and animal control trucks. Prepare for prosecutions related to animal treatment, and give evidence in court. Educate the public about animal welfare, and animal control laws and regulations. Contact animal owners to inform them that their pets are at animal holding facilities. Write reports of activities, and maintain files of impoundments and dispositions of animals. Issue warnings or citations in connection with animal-related offenses, or contact police to report violations and request arrests. Answer inquiries from the public concerning animal control operations. Examine animal licenses, and inspect establishments housing animals for compliance with laws. Organize the adoption of unclaimed animals.
33-9021| Private Detectives and Investigators|Write reports or case summaries to document investigations. Conduct private investigations on a paid basis. Search computer databases, credit reports, public records, tax or legal filings, or other resources to locate persons or to compile information for investigations. Conduct personal background investigations, such as pre-employment checks, to obtain information about an individual's character, financial status, or personal history. Expose fraudulent insurance claims or stolen funds. Obtain and analyze information on suspects, crimes, or disturbances to solve cases, to identify criminal activity, or to gather information for court cases. Testify at hearings or court trials to present evidence. Question persons to obtain evidence for cases of divorce, child custody, or missing persons or information about individuals' character or financial status. Observe and document activities of individuals to detect unlawful acts or to obtain evidence for cases, using binoculars and still or video cameras. Confer with establishment officials, security departments, police, or postal officials to identify problems, provide information, or receive instructions. Investigate companies' financial standings or locate funds stolen by embezzlers, using accounting skills. Perform undercover operations, such as evaluating the performance or honesty of employees by posing as customers or employees. Alert appropriate personnel to suspects' locations. Count cash and review transactions, sales checks, or register tapes to verify amounts or to identify shortages. Monitor industrial or commercial properties to enforce conformance to establishment rules and to protect people or property. Apprehend suspects and release them to law enforcement authorities or security personnel. Warn troublemakers causing problems on establishment premises and eject them from premises when necessary.
33-9031| Gaming Surveillance Officers and Gaming Investigators|Monitor establishment activities to ensure adherence to all state gaming regulations and company policies and procedures. Observe casino or casino hotel operations for irregular activities such as cheating or theft by employees or patrons, using audio and video equipment and one-way mirrors. Report all violations and suspicious behaviors to supervisors, verbally or in writing. Act as oversight or security agents for management or customers. Supervise or train surveillance observers.
33-9032| Security Guards|Monitor and authorize entrance and departure of employees, visitors, and other persons to guard against theft and maintain security of premises. Write reports of daily activities and irregularities, such as equipment or property damage, theft, presence of unauthorized persons, or unusual occurrences. Call police or fire departments in cases of emergency, such as fire or presence of unauthorized persons. Answer alarms and investigate disturbances. Circulate among visitors, patrons, or employees to preserve order and protect property. Patrol industrial or commercial premises to prevent and detect signs of intrusion and ensure security of doors, windows, and gates. Escort or drive motor vehicle to transport individuals to specified locations or to provide personal protection. Operate detecting devices to screen individuals and prevent passage of prohibited articles into restricted areas. Answer telephone calls to take messages, answer questions, and provide information during non-business hours or when switchboard is closed. Warn persons of rule infractions or violations, and apprehend or evict violators from premises, using force when necessary. Inspect and adjust security systems, equipment, or machinery to ensure operational use and to detect evidence of tampering. Monitor and adjust controls that regulate building systems, such as air conditioning, furnace, or boiler.
33-9091| Crossing Guards|Monitor traffic flow to locate safe gaps through which pedestrians can cross streets. Direct or escort pedestrians across streets, stopping traffic as necessary. Guide or control vehicular or pedestrian traffic at such places as street and railroad crossings and construction sites. Communicate traffic and crossing rules and other information to students and adults. Report unsafe behavior of children to school officials. Record license numbers of vehicles disregarding traffic signals, and report infractions to appropriate authorities. Direct traffic movement or warn of hazards, using signs, flags, lanterns, and hand signals. Learn the location and purpose of street traffic signs within assigned patrol areas. Stop speeding vehicles to warn drivers of traffic laws. Distribute traffic control signs and markers at designated points. Discuss traffic routing plans and control point locations with superiors.
33-9092| Lifeguards, Ski Patrol, and Other Recreational Protective Service|Examine injured persons and administer first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation, if necessary, using training and medical supplies and equipment. Contact emergency medical personnel in case of serious injury. Rescue distressed persons, using rescue techniques and equipment. Instruct participants in skiing, swimming, or other recreational activities and provide safety precaution information. Patrol or monitor recreational areas such as trails, slopes, and swimming areas, on foot, in vehicles, or from towers. Complete and maintain records of weather and beach conditions, emergency medical treatments performed, and other relevant incident information. Maintain quality of pool water by testing chemical levels. Warn recreational participants of inclement weather, unsafe areas, or illegal conduct. Observe activities in assigned areas, using binoculars, to detect hazards, disturbances, or safety infractions. Inspect recreational equipment, such as rope tows, T-bars, J-bars, and chair lifts, for safety hazards and damage or wear. Inspect recreational facilities for cleanliness. Provide assistance with staff selection, training, and supervision. Provide assistance in the safe use of equipment, such as ski lifts.
33-9093| Transportation Security Screeners|Inspect carry-on items, using x-ray viewing equipment, to determine whether items contain objects that warrant further investigation. Search carry-on or checked baggage by hand when it is suspected to contain prohibited items such as weapons. Check passengers' tickets to ensure that they are valid, and to determine whether passengers have designations that require special handling, such as providing photo identification. Test baggage for any explosive materials, using equipment such as explosive detection machines or chemical swab systems. Perform pat-down or hand-held wand searches of passengers who have triggered machine alarms, who are unable to pass through metal detectors, or who have been randomly identified for such searches. Notify supervisors or other appropriate personnel when security breaches occur. Send checked baggage through automated screening machines, and set bags aside for searching or rescreening as indicated by equipment. Decide whether baggage that triggers alarms should be searched or should be allowed to pass through. Follow those who breach security until police or other security personnel arrive to apprehend them. Inform other screeners when baggage should not be opened because it might contain explosives. Inspect checked baggage for signs of tampering. Ask passengers to remove shoes and divest themselves of metal objects prior to walking through metal detectors. Close entry areas following security breaches or reopen areas after receiving notification that the airport is secure. Challenge suspicious people, requesting their badges and asking what their business is in a particular areas. Patrol work areas to detect any suspicious items. Contact police directly in cases of urgent security issues, using phones or two-way radios. Record information about any baggage that sets off alarms in monitoring equipment. Watch for potentially dangerous persons whose pictures are posted at checkpoints. Contact leads or supervisors to discuss objects of concern that are not on prohibited object lists. Confiscate dangerous items and hazardous materials found in opened bags and turn them over to airlines for disposal. Monitor passenger flow through screening checkpoints to ensure order and efficiency. Inform passengers of how to mail prohibited items to themselves, or confiscate these items. Provide directions and respond to passenger inquiries. Direct passengers to areas where they can pick up their baggage after screening is complete. View images of checked bags and cargo, using remote screening equipment, and alert baggage screeners or handlers to any possible problems. Locate suspicious bags pictured in printouts sent from remote monitoring areas, and set these bags aside for inspection.
35-1011| Chefs and Head Cooks|Monitor sanitation practices to ensure that employees follow standards and regulations. Check the quality of raw or cooked food products to ensure that standards are met. Estimate amounts and costs of required supplies, such as food and ingredients. Instruct cooks or other workers in the preparation, cooking, garnishing, or presentation of food. Supervise or coordinate activities of cooks or workers engaged in food preparation. Inspect supplies, equipment, or work areas to ensure conformance to established standards. Order or requisition food or other supplies needed to ensure efficient operation. Determine production schedules and staff requirements necessary to ensure timely delivery of services. Check the quantity and quality of received products. Determine how food should be presented and create decorative food displays. Plan, direct, or supervise the food preparation or cooking activities of multiple kitchens or restaurants in an establishment such as a restaurant chain, hospital, or hotel. Coordinate planning, budgeting, or purchasing for all the food operations within establishments such as clubs, hotels, or restaurant chains. Analyze recipes to assign prices to menu items, based on food, labor, and overhead costs. Prepare and cook foods of all types, either on a regular basis or for special guests or functions. Meet with sales representatives to negotiate prices or order supplies. Recruit and hire staff, such as cooks and other kitchen workers. Collaborate with other personnel to plan and develop recipes or menus, taking into account such factors as seasonal availability of ingredients or the likely number of customers. Demonstrate new cooking techniques or equipment to staff. Arrange for equipment purchases or repairs. Meet with customers to discuss menus for special occasions, such as weddings, parties, or banquets. Record production or operational data on specified forms.
35-1012| First-Line Supervisors of Food Preparation and Serving Workers|Train workers in food preparation, and in service, sanitation, and safety procedures. Compile and balance cash receipts at the end of the day or shift. Perform various financial activities, such as cash handling, deposit preparation, and payroll. Supervise and participate in kitchen and dining area cleaning activities. Estimate ingredients and supplies required to prepare a recipe. Resolve customer complaints regarding food service. Control inventories of food, equipment, smallware, and liquor, and report shortages to designated personnel. Purchase or requisition supplies and equipment needed to ensure quality and timely delivery of services. Observe and evaluate workers and work procedures to ensure quality standards and service, and complete disciplinary write-ups. Specify food portions and courses, production and time sequences, and workstation and equipment arrangements. Forecast staff, equipment, and supply requirements, based on a master menu. Inspect supplies, equipment, and work areas to ensure efficient service and conformance to standards. Assign duties, responsibilities, and work stations to employees in accordance with work requirements. Analyze operational problems, such as theft and wastage, and establish procedures to alleviate these problems. Perform personnel actions, such as hiring and firing staff, providing employee orientation and training, and conducting supervisory activities, such as creating work schedules or organizing employee time sheets. Recommend measures for improving work procedures and worker performance to increase service quality and enhance job safety. Perform food preparation and serving duties, such as carving meat, preparing flambe dishes, or serving wine and liquor. Record production, operational, and personnel data on specified forms. Develop equipment maintenance schedules and arrange for repairs. Evaluate new products for usefulness and suitability. Greet and seat guests, and present menus and wine lists. Schedule parties and take reservations. Present bills and accept payments. Conduct meetings and collaborate with other personnel for menu planning, serving arrangements, and related details. Assess nutritional needs of patients, plan special menus, supervise the assembly of regular and special diet trays, and oversee the delivery of food trolleys to hospital patients. Develop departmental objectives, budgets, policies, procedures, and strategies.
35-2011| Cooks, Fast Food|Maintain sanitation, health, and safety standards in work areas. Clean food preparation areas, cooking surfaces, and utensils. Verify that prepared food meets requirements for quality and quantity. Cook and package batches of food, such as hamburgers and fried chicken, which are prepared to order or kept warm until sold. Prepare specialty foods such as pizzas, fish and chips, sandwiches, and tacos, following specific methods that usually require short preparation time. Operate large-volume cooking equipment such as grills, deep-fat fryers, or griddles. Read food order slips or receive verbal instructions as to food required by patron, and prepare and cook food according to instructions. Measure ingredients required for specific food items being prepared. Take food and drink orders and receive payment from customers. Clean, stock, and restock workstations and display cases. Cook the exact number of items ordered by each customer, working on several different orders simultaneously. Wash, cut, and prepare foods designated for cooking. Serve orders to customers at windows, counters, or tables. Prepare and serve beverages such as coffee and fountain drinks. Pre-cook items such as bacon, to prepare them for later use. Mix ingredients such as pancake or waffle batters. Schedule activities and equipment use with managers, using information about daily menus to help coordinate cooking times. Prepare dough, following recipe. Order and take delivery of supplies.
35-2012| Cooks, Institution and Cafeteria|Clean, cut, and cook meat, fish, or poultry. Cook foodstuffs according to menus, special dietary or nutritional restrictions, or numbers of portions to be served. Clean and inspect galley equipment, kitchen appliances, and work areas to ensure cleanliness and functional operation. Apportion and serve food to facility residents, employees, or patrons. Direct activities of one or more workers who assist in preparing and serving meals. Wash pots, pans, dishes, utensils, and other cooking equipment. Compile and maintain records of food use and expenditures. Take inventory of supplies and equipment. Bake breads, rolls, and other pastries. Train new employees. Monitor use of government food commodities to ensure that proper procedures are followed. Monitor menus and spending to ensure that meals are prepared economically. Determine meal prices, based on calculations of ingredient prices. Plan menus that are varied, nutritionally balanced, and appetizing, taking advantage of foods in season and local availability. Requisition food supplies, kitchen equipment, and appliances, based on estimates of future needs.
35-2013| Cooks, Private Household|Plan menus according to employers' needs and diet restrictions. Shop for or order food and kitchen supplies and equipment. Peel, wash, trim, and cook vegetables and meats, and bake breads and pastries. Prepare meals in private homes according to employers' recipes or tastes, handling all meals for the family and possibly for other household staff. Stock, organize, and clean kitchens and cooking utensils. Specialize in preparing fancy dishes or food for special diets. Create and explore new cuisines. Direct the operation and organization of kitchens and all food-related activities, including the presentation and serving of food.
35-2014| Cooks, Restaurant|Inspect and clean food preparation areas, such as equipment and work surfaces, or serving areas to ensure safe and sanitary food-handling practices. Ensure food is stored and cooked at correct temperature by regulating temperature of ovens, broilers, grills, and roasters. Ensure freshness of food and ingredients by checking for quality, keeping track of old and new items, and rotating stock. Turn or stir foods to ensure even cooking. Season and cook food according to recipes or personal judgment and experience. Bake, roast, broil, and steam meats, fish, vegetables, and other foods. Weigh, measure, and mix ingredients according to recipes or personal judgment, using various kitchen utensils and equipment. Portion, arrange, and garnish food, and serve food to waiters or patrons. Observe and test foods to determine if they have been cooked sufficiently, using methods such as tasting, smelling, or piercing them with utensils. Wash, peel, cut, and seed fruits and vegetables to prepare them for consumption. Carve and trim meats such as beef, veal, ham, pork, and lamb for hot or cold service, or for sandwiches. Substitute for or assist other cooks during emergencies or rush periods. Consult with supervisory staff to plan menus, taking into consideration factors such as costs and special event needs. Keep records and accounts. Coordinate and supervise work of kitchen staff. Prepare relishes and hors d'oeuvres. Estimate expected food consumption, requisition or purchase supplies, or procure food from storage. Butcher and dress animals, fowl, or shellfish, or cut and bone meat prior to cooking. Plan and price menu items. Bake breads, rolls, cakes, and pastries.
35-2015| Cooks, Short Order|Grill, cook, and fry foods such as french fries, eggs, and pancakes. Clean food preparation equipment, work areas, and counters or tables. Take orders from customers and cook foods requiring short preparation times, according to customer requirements. Grill and garnish hamburgers or other meats, such as steaks and chops. Restock kitchen supplies, rotate food, and stamp the time and date on food in coolers. Perform food preparation tasks, such as making sandwiches, carving meats, making soups or salads, baking breads or desserts, and brewing coffee or tea. Plan work on orders so that items served together are finished at the same time. Complete orders from steam tables, placing food on plates and serving customers at tables or counters. Perform general cleaning activities in kitchen and dining areas. Accept payments, and make change or write charge slips as necessary. Order supplies and stock them on shelves.
35-2021| Food Preparation Workers|Clean and sanitize work areas, equipment, utensils, dishes, or silverware. Store food in designated containers and storage areas to prevent spoilage. Prepare a variety of foods, such as meats, vegetables, or desserts, according to customers' orders or supervisors' instructions, following approved procedures. Take and record temperature of food and food storage areas, such as refrigerators and freezers. Wash, peel, and cut various foods, such as fruits and vegetables, to prepare for cooking or serving. Place food trays over food warmers for immediate service, or store them in refrigerated storage cabinets. Portion and wrap the food, or place it directly on plates for service to patrons. Weigh or measure ingredients. Mix ingredients for green salads, molded fruit salads, vegetable salads, and pasta salads. Receive and store food supplies, equipment, and utensils in refrigerators, cupboards, and other storage areas. Remove trash and clean kitchen garbage containers. Assist cooks and kitchen staff with various tasks as needed, and provide cooks with needed items. Carry food supplies, equipment, and utensils to and from storage and work areas. Use manual or electric appliances to clean, peel, slice, and trim foods. Inform supervisors when equipment is not working properly and when food and supplies are getting low, and order needed items. Make special dressings and sauces as condiments for sandwiches. Stir and strain soups and sauces. Butcher and clean fowl, fish, poultry, and shellfish to prepare for cooking or serving. Keep records of the quantities of food used. Load dishes, glasses, and tableware into dishwashing machines. Distribute food to waiters and waitresses to serve to customers. Operate cash register, handle money, and give correct change. Cut, slice or grind meat, poultry, and seafood to prepare for cooking. Distribute menus to hospital patients, collect diet sheets, and deliver food trays and snacks to nursing units or directly to patients. Stock cupboards and refrigerators, and tend salad bars and buffet meals. Add cutlery, napkins, food, and other items to trays on assembly lines in hospitals, cafeterias, airline kitchens, and similar establishments. Package take-out foods or serve food to customers. Prepare and serve a variety of beverages such as coffee, tea, and soft drinks. Vacuum dining area and sweep and mop kitchen floor. Scrape leftovers from dishes into garbage containers.
35-3011| Bartenders|Collect money for drinks served. Check identification of customers to verify age requirements for purchase of alcohol. Clean glasses, utensils, and bar equipment. Balance cash receipts. Attempt to limit problems and liability related to customers' excessive drinking by taking steps such as persuading customers to stop drinking, or ordering taxis or other transportation for intoxicated patrons. Stock bar with beer, wine, liquor, and related supplies such as ice, glassware, napkins, or straws. Serve wine, and bottled or draft beer. Take beverage orders from serving staff or directly from patrons. Clean bars, work areas, and tables. Mix ingredients, such as liquor, soda, water, sugar, and bitters, to prepare cocktails and other drinks. Serve snacks or food items to customers seated at the bar. Slice and pit fruit for garnishing drinks. Ask customers who become loud and obnoxious to leave, or physically remove them. Arrange bottles and glasses to make attractive displays. Plan, organize, and control the operations of a cocktail lounge or bar. Order or requisition liquors and supplies. Supervise the work of bar staff and other bartenders. Plan bar menus. Prepare appetizers such as pickles, cheese, and cold meats. Create drink recipes.
35-3021| Combined Food Preparation and Serving Workers, Including Fast Food|Serve customers in eating places that specialize in fast service and inexpensive carry-out food. Accept payment from customers, and make change as necessary. Request and record customer orders, and compute bills using cash registers, multi counting machines, or pencil and paper. Clean and organize eating, service, and kitchen areas. Notify kitchen personnel of shortages or special orders. Communicate with customers regarding orders, comments, and complaints. Prepare daily food items, and cook simple foods and beverages, such as sandwiches, salads, soups, pizza, or coffee, using proper safety precautions and sanitary measures. Select food items from serving or storage areas and place them in dishes, on serving trays, or in take-out bags. Relay food orders to cooks. Prepare and serve cold drinks, or frozen milk drinks or desserts, using drink-dispensing, milkshake, or frozen custard machines. Collect and return dirty dishes to the kitchen for washing. Perform personnel activities such as supervising and training employees. Monitor and order supplies or food items and restock as necessary to maintain inventory. Cook or reheat food items such as french fries. Wash dishes, glassware, and silverware after meals. Pack food, dishes, utensils, tablecloths, and accessories for transportation from catering or food preparation establishments to locations designated by customers. Distribute food to servers. Plan, prepare, and deliver meals to individuals with special dietary needs. Arrange tables and decorations according to instructions. Provide caterers with assistance in food preparation or service. Serve food and beverages to guests at banquets or other social functions.
35-3022| Counter Attendants, Cafeteria, Food Concession, and Coffee Shop|Serve food, beverages, or desserts to customers in such settings as take-out counters of restaurants or lunchrooms, business or industrial establishments, hotel rooms, and cars. Prepare bills for food, using cash registers, calculators, or adding machines, and accept payment or make change. Cook food or prepare food items, such as sandwiches, salads, and ice cream dishes, using standard formulas or following directions. Perform cleaning duties such as sweeping, mopping, and washing dishes, to keep equipment and facilities sanitary. Balance receipts and payments in cash registers. Wrap menu item such as sandwiches, hot entrees, and desserts for serving or for takeout. Scrub and polish counters, steam tables, and other equipment, and clean glasses, dishes, and fountain equipment. Replenish foods at serving stations. Brew coffee and tea, and fill containers with requested beverages. Take customers' orders and write ordered items on tickets, giving ticket stubs to customers when needed to identify filled orders. Order items needed to replenish supplies. Serve salads, vegetables, meat, breads, and cocktails, ladle soups and sauces, portion desserts, and fill beverage cups and glasses. Set up dining areas for meals and clear them following meals. Carve meat. Deliver orders to kitchens, and pick up and serve food when it is ready. Add relishes and garnishes to food orders, according to instructions. Arrange reservations for patrons of dining establishments.
35-3031| Waiters and Waitresses|Check with customers to ensure that they are enjoying their meals and take action to correct any problems. Collect payments from customers. Write patrons' food orders on order slips, memorize orders, or enter orders into computers for transmittal to kitchen staff. Prepare checks that itemize and total meal costs and sales taxes. Take orders from patrons for food or beverages. Check patrons' identification to ensure that they meet minimum age requirements for consumption of alcoholic beverages. Serve food or beverages to patrons, and prepare or serve specialty dishes at tables as required. Present menus to patrons and answer questions about menu items, making recommendations upon request. Clean tables or counters after patrons have finished dining. Prepare hot, cold, and mixed drinks for patrons, and chill bottles of wine. Roll silverware, set up food stations or set up dining areas to prepare for the next shift or for large parties. Inform customers of daily specials. Stock service areas with supplies such as coffee, food, tableware, and linens. Explain how various menu items are prepared, describing ingredients and cooking methods. Prepare tables for meals, including setting up items such as linens, silverware, and glassware. Remove dishes and glasses from tables or counters, take them to kitchen for cleaning. Assist host or hostess by answering phones to take reservations or to-go orders, and by greeting, seating, and thanking guests. Perform cleaning duties, such as sweeping and mopping floors, vacuuming carpet, tidying up server station, taking out trash, or checking and cleaning bathroom. Bring wine selections to tables with appropriate glasses, and pour the wines for customers. Perform food preparation duties such as preparing salads, appetizers, and cold dishes, portioning desserts, and brewing coffee. Escort customers to their tables. Garnish and decorate dishes in preparation for serving. Fill salt, pepper, sugar, cream, condiment, and napkin containers. Describe and recommend wines to customers.
35-3041| Food Servers, Nonrestaurant|Examine trays to ensure that they contain required items. Place food servings on plates or trays according to orders or instructions. Monitor food distribution, ensuring that meals are delivered to the correct recipients and that guidelines, such as those for special diets, are followed. Load trays with accessories such as eating utensils, napkins, or condiments. Clean or sterilize dishes, kitchen utensils, equipment, or facilities. Monitor food preparation or serving techniques to ensure that proper procedures are followed. Take food orders and relay orders to kitchens or serving counters so they can be filled. Carry food, silverware, or linen on trays or use carts to carry trays. Determine where patients or patrons would like to eat their meals and help them get situated. Prepare food items, such as sandwiches, salads, soups, or beverages. Remove trays and stack dishes for return to kitchen after meals are finished. Stock service stations with items such as ice, napkins, or straws. Record amounts and types of special food items served to customers. Total checks, present them to customers, and accept payment for services.
35-9011| Dining Room and Cafeteria Attendants and Bartender Helpers|Wipe tables or seats with dampened cloths or replace dirty tablecloths. Set tables with clean linens, condiments, or other supplies. Locate items requested by customers. Scrape and stack dirty dishes and carry dishes and other tableware to kitchens for cleaning. Perform serving, cleaning, or stocking duties in establishments, such as cafeterias or dining rooms, to facilitate customer service. Carry food, dishes, trays, or silverware from kitchens or supply departments to serving counters. Clean up spilled food or drink or broken dishes and remove empty bottles and trash. Serve food to customers when waiters or waitresses need assistance. Serve ice water, coffee, rolls, or butter to patrons. Maintain adequate supplies of items such as clean linens, silverware, glassware, dishes, or trays. Clean and polish counters, shelves, walls, furniture, or equipment in food service areas or other areas of restaurants and mop or vacuum floors. Fill beverage or ice dispensers. Stock cabinets or serving areas with condiments and refill condiment containers. Run cash registers. Garnish foods and position them on tables to make them visible and accessible. Carry trays from food counters to tables for cafeteria patrons. Mix and prepare flavors for mixed drinks. Replenish supplies of food or equipment at steam tables or service bars. Slice and pit fruit used to garnish drinks. Wash glasses or other serving equipment at bars. Stock refrigerating units with wines or bottled beer or replace empty beer kegs. Stock vending machines with food. Carry linens to or from laundry areas.
35-9021| Dishwashers|Wash dishes, glassware, flatware, pots, or pans, using dishwashers or by hand. Maintain kitchen work areas, equipment, or utensils in clean and orderly condition. Place clean dishes, utensils, or cooking equipment in storage areas. Sort and remove trash, placing it in designated pickup areas. Sweep or scrub floors. Stock supplies, such as food or utensils, in serving stations, cupboards, refrigerators, or salad bars. Clean or prepare various foods for cooking or serving. Receive and store supplies. Clean garbage cans with water or steam. Transfer supplies or equipment between storage and work areas, by hand or using hand trucks. Prepare and package individual place settings. Load or unload trucks that deliver or pick up food or supplies. Set up banquet tables.
35-9031| Hosts and Hostesses, Restaurant, Lounge, and Coffee Shop|Greet guests and seat them at tables or in waiting areas. Provide guests with menus. Assign patrons to tables suitable for their needs and according to rotation so that servers receive an appropriate number of seatings. Speak with patrons to ensure satisfaction with food and service, to respond to complaints, or to make conversation. Answer telephone calls and respond to inquiries or transfer calls. Maintain contact with kitchen staff, management, serving staff, and customers to ensure that dining details are handled properly and customers' concerns are addressed. Inspect dining and serving areas to ensure cleanliness and proper setup. Inform patrons of establishment specialties and features. Receive and record patrons' dining reservations. Inspect restrooms for cleanliness and availability of supplies and clean restrooms when necessary. Direct patrons to coatrooms and waiting areas such as lounges. Take and prepare to-go orders. Operate cash registers to accept payments for food and beverages. Supervise and coordinate activities of dining room staff to ensure that patrons receive prompt and courteous service. Order or requisition supplies and equipment for tables and serving stations. Assist with preparing and serving food and beverages. Hire, train, and supervise food and beverage service staff. Prepare cash receipts after establishments close, and make bank deposits. Prepare staff work schedules. Confer with other staff to help plan establishments' menus. Plan parties or other special events and services. Perform marketing and advertising services.
37-1011| First-Line Supervisors of Housekeeping and Janitorial Workers|Plan and prepare employee work schedules. Coordinate activities with other departments to ensure that services are provided in an efficient and timely manner. Inspect work performed to ensure that it meets specifications and established standards. Perform or assist with cleaning duties as necessary. Confer with staff to resolve performance and personnel problems, and to discuss company policies. Establish and implement operational standards and procedures for the departments supervised. Investigate complaints about service and equipment, and take corrective action. Maintain required records of work hours, budgets, payrolls, and other information. Inspect and evaluate the physical condition of facilities to determine the type of work required. Check and maintain equipment to ensure that it is in working order. Instruct staff in work policies and procedures, and the use and maintenance of equipment. Inventory stock to ensure that supplies and equipment are available in adequate amounts. Select and order or purchase new equipment, supplies, or furnishings. Prepare reports on activity, personnel, and information such as occupancy, hours worked, facility usage, work performed, and departmental expenses. Recommend changes that could improve service and increase operational efficiency. Select the most suitable cleaning materials for different types of linens, furniture, flooring, and surfaces. Screen job applicants, and hire new employees. Issue supplies and equipment to workers. Recommend or arrange for additional services, such as painting, repair work, renovations, and the replacement of furnishings and equipment. Forecast necessary levels of staffing and stock at different times to facilitate effective scheduling and ordering. Evaluate employee performance and recommend personnel actions such as promotions, transfers, and dismissals. Direct activities for stopping the spread of infections in facilities such as hospitals. Advise managers, desk clerks, or admitting personnel of rooms ready for occupancy. Supervise in-house services such as laundries, maintenance and repair, dry cleaning, or valet services. Perform financial tasks, such as estimating costs and preparing and managing budgets. Perform grounds maintenance tasks, such as removing snow and mowing the lawn.
37-1012|First-Line Supervisors of Landscaping, Lawn Service, and Groundskeeping Workers|Monitor project activities to ensure that instructions are followed, deadlines are met, and schedules are maintained. Establish and enforce operating procedures and work standards that will ensure adequate performance and personnel safety. Inspect completed work to ensure conformance to specifications, standards, and contract requirements. Provide workers with assistance in performing duties as necessary to meet deadlines. Direct activities of workers who perform duties such as landscaping, cultivating lawns, or pruning trees and shrubs. Confer with other supervisors to coordinate work activities with those of other departments or units. Schedule work for crews, depending on work priorities, crew or equipment availability, or weather conditions. Direct or perform mixing or application of fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides, or fungicides. Direct or assist workers engaged in the maintenance or repair of equipment, such as power tools or motorized equipment. Perform administrative duties, such as authorizing leaves or processing time sheets. Answer inquiries from current or prospective customers regarding methods, materials, or price ranges. Inventory supplies of tools, equipment, or materials to ensure that sufficient supplies are available and items are in usable condition. Investigate work-related complaints to verify problems and to determine responses. Perform personnel-related activities, such as hiring workers, evaluating staff performance, or taking disciplinary actions when performance problems occur. Review contracts or work assignments to determine service, machine, or workforce requirements for jobs. Prepare service estimates based on labor, material, and machine costs and maintain budgets for individual projects. Plant or maintain vegetation through activities such as mulching, fertilizing, watering, mowing, or pruning. Order the performance of corrective work when problems occur and recommend procedural changes to avoid such problems. Maintain required records, such as personnel information or project records. Train workers in tasks such as transplanting or pruning trees or shrubs, finishing cement, using equipment, or caring for turf. Prepare or maintain required records, such as work activity or personnel reports. Negotiate with customers regarding fees for landscaping, lawn service, or groundskeeping work. Identify diseases or pests affecting landscaping and order appropriate treatments. Recommend changes in working conditions or equipment use to increase crew efficiency. Confer with managers or landscape architects to develop plans or schedules for landscaping maintenance or improvement. Tour grounds, such as parks, botanical gardens, cemeteries, or golf courses, to inspect conditions of plants and soil. Design or supervise the installation of sprinkler systems, calculating water pressure, or valve and pipe coverage needs. Install or maintain landscaped areas, performing tasks such as removing snow, pouring cement curbs, or repairing sidewalks.
37-2011| Janitors and Cleaners, Except Maids and Housekeeping Cleaners|Service, clean, or supply restrooms. Clean building floors by sweeping, mopping, scrubbing, or vacuuming. Gather and empty trash. Follow procedures for the use of chemical cleaners and power equipment to prevent damage to floors and fixtures. Mix water and detergents or acids in containers to prepare cleaning solutions, according to specifications. Clean windows, glass partitions, or mirrors, using soapy water or other cleaners, sponges, or squeegees. Notify managers concerning the need for major repairs or additions to building operating systems. Requisition supplies or equipment needed for cleaning and maintenance duties. Dust furniture, walls, machines, or equipment. Strip, seal, finish, and polish floors. Clean and polish furniture and fixtures. Steam clean or shampoo carpets. Move heavy furniture, equipment, or supplies, either manually or by using hand trucks. Remove snow from sidewalks, driveways, or parking areas, using snowplows, snow blowers, or snow shovels, or spread snow melting chemicals. Monitor building security and safety by performing tasks such as locking doors after operating hours or checking electrical appliance use to ensure that hazards are not created. Clean laboratory equipment, such as glassware or metal instruments, using solvents, brushes, rags, or power cleaning equipment. Mow or trim lawns or shrubbery, using mowers or hand or power trimmers, and clear debris from grounds. Set up, arrange, or remove decorations, tables, chairs, ladders, or scaffolding to prepare facilities for events, such as banquets or meetings. Make adjustments or minor repairs to heating, cooling, ventilating, plumbing, or electrical systems.
37-2012| Maids and Housekeeping Cleaners|Carry linens, towels, toilet items, and cleaning supplies, using wheeled carts. Disinfect equipment and supplies, using germicides or steam-operated sterilizers. Clean rooms, hallways, lobbies, lounges, restrooms, corridors, elevators, stairways, locker rooms, and other work areas so that health standards are met. Empty wastebaskets, empty and clean ashtrays, and transport other trash and waste to disposal areas. Observe precautions required to protect hotel and guest property and report damage, theft, and found articles to supervisors. Replenish supplies, such as drinking glasses, linens, writing supplies, and bathroom items. Clean rugs, carpets, upholstered furniture, and draperies, using vacuum cleaners and shampooers. Dust and polish furniture and equipment. Keep storage areas and carts well-stocked, clean, and tidy. Wash windows, walls, ceilings, and woodwork, waxing and polishing as necessary. Sweep, scrub, wax, or polish floors, using brooms, mops, or powered scrubbing and waxing machines. Move and arrange furniture and turn mattresses. Hang draperies and dust window blinds. Wash dishes and clean kitchens, cooking utensils, and silverware. Polish silver accessories and metalwork, such as fixtures and fittings. Sort clothing and other articles, load washing machines, and iron and fold dried items. Request repair services and wait for repair workers to arrive. Sort, count, and mark clean linens and store them in linen closets. Prepare rooms for meetings and arrange decorations, media equipment, and furniture for social or business functions. Run errands, such as taking laundry to the cleaners and buying groceries. Remove debris from driveways, garages, and swimming pool areas. Purchase or order groceries and household supplies to keep kitchens stocked and record expenditures. Deliver television sets, ironing boards, baby cribs, and rollaway beds to guests' rooms. Care for children or elderly persons by overseeing their activities, providing companionship, and assisting them with dressing, bathing, eating, and other needs. Plan menus and cook and serve meals and refreshments following employer's instructions or own methods. Assign duties to other staff and give instructions regarding work methods and routines. Replace light bulbs.
37-2021| Pest Control Workers|Record work activities performed. Inspect premises to identify infestation source and extent of damage to property, wall, or roof porosity and access to infested locations. Recommend treatment and prevention methods for pest problems to clients. Spray or dust chemical solutions, powders, or gases into rooms, onto clothing, furnishings, or wood, or over marshlands, ditches, or catch basins. Clean work site after completion of job. Drive truck equipped with power spraying equipment. Measure area dimensions requiring treatment, calculate fumigant requirements, and estimate cost for service. Study preliminary reports or diagrams of infested area and determine treatment type required to eliminate and prevent recurrence of infestation. Direct or assist other workers in treatment or extermination processes to eliminate or control rodents, insects, or weeds. Post warning signs and lock building doors to secure area to be fumigated. Set mechanical traps or place poisonous paste or bait in sewers, burrows, or ditches. Cut or bore openings in building or surrounding concrete, access infested areas, insert nozzle, and inject pesticide to impregnate ground. Clean and remove blockages from infested areas to facilitate spraying procedures and provide drainage, using brooms, mops, shovels, or rakes.
37-3011| Landscaping and Groundskeeping Workers|Gather and remove litter. Use hand tools, such as shovels, rakes, pruning saws, saws, hedge or brush trimmers, or axes. Operate vehicles or powered equipment, such as mowers, tractors, twin-axle vehicles, snow blowers, chain-saws, electric clippers, sod cutters, or pruning saws. Water lawns, trees, or plants, using portable sprinkler systems, hoses, or watering cans. Prune or trim trees, shrubs, or hedges, using shears, pruners, or chain saws. Mix and spray or spread fertilizers, herbicides, or insecticides onto grass, shrubs, or trees, using hand or automatic sprayers or spreaders. Care for established lawns by mulching, aerating, weeding, grubbing, removing thatch, or trimming or edging around flower beds, walks, or walls. Follow planned landscaping designs to determine where to lay sod, sow grass, or plant flowers or foliage. Trim or pick flowers and clean flower beds. Attach wires from planted trees to support stakes. Plant seeds, bulbs, foliage, flowering plants, grass, ground covers, trees, or shrubs and apply mulch for protection, using gardening tools. Mow or edge lawns, using power mowers or edgers. Rake, mulch, and compost leaves. Decorate gardens with stones or plants. Use irrigation methods to adjust the amount of water consumption and to prevent waste. Provide proper upkeep of sidewalks, driveways, parking lots, fountains, planters, burial sites, or other grounds features. Shovel snow from walks, driveways, or parking lots and spread salt in those areas. Maintain irrigation systems, including winterizing the systems and starting them up in spring. Plan or cultivate lawns or gardens. Maintain or repair tools, equipment, or structures, such as buildings, greenhouses, fences, or benches, using hand or power tools. Care for artificial turf fields, periodically removing the turf and replacing cushioning pads or vacuuming and disinfecting the turf after use to prevent the growth of harmful bacteria. Install rock gardens, ponds, decks, drainage systems, irrigation systems, retaining walls, fences, planters, or playground equipment. Care for natural turf fields, making sure the underlying soil has the required composition to allow proper drainage and to support the grasses used on the fields. Advise customers on plant selection or care. Haul or spread topsoil or spread straw over seeded soil to hold soil in place.
37-3012| Pesticide Handlers, Sprayers, and Applicators, Vegetation|Mix pesticides, herbicides, or fungicides for application to trees, shrubs, lawns, or botanical crops. Fill sprayer tanks with water and chemicals, according to formulas. Lift, push, and swing nozzles, hoses, and tubes to direct spray over designated areas. Identify lawn or plant diseases to determine the appropriate course of treatment. Cover areas to specified depths with pesticides, applying knowledge of weather conditions, droplet sizes, elevation-to-distance ratios, and obstructions. Start motors and engage machinery, such as sprayer agitators or pumps or portable spray equipment. Connect hoses and nozzles selected according to terrain, distribution pattern requirements, types of infestations, and velocities. Clean or service machinery to ensure operating efficiency, using water, gasoline, lubricants, or hand tools. Provide driving instructions to truck drivers to ensure complete coverage of designated areas, using hand and horn signals.
37-3013| Tree Trimmers and Pruners|Supervise others engaged in tree trimming work and train lower-level employees. Operate boom trucks, loaders, stump chippers, brush chippers, tractors, power saws, trucks, sprayers, and other equipment and tools. Climb trees, using climbing hooks and belts, or climb ladders to gain access to work areas. Clean, sharpen, and lubricate tools and equipment. Cut away dead and excess branches from trees, or clear branches around power lines, using climbing equipment or buckets of extended truck booms, or chainsaws, hooks, handsaws, shears, and clippers. Trim, top, and reshape trees to achieve attractive shapes or to remove low-hanging branches. Prune, cut down, fertilize, and spray trees as directed by tree surgeons. Hoist tools and equipment to tree trimmers, and lower branches with ropes or block and tackle. Operate shredding and chipping equipment, and feed limbs and brush into the machines. Load debris and refuse onto trucks and haul it away for disposal. Inspect trees to determine if they have diseases or pest problems. Cable, brace, tie, bolt, stake, and guy trees and branches to provide support. Collect debris and refuse from tree trimming and removal operations into piles, using shovels, rakes or other tools. Provide information to the public regarding trees, such as advice on tree care. Clear sites, streets, and grounds of woody and herbaceous materials, such as tree stumps and fallen trees and limbs. Remove broken limbs from wires, using hooked extension poles. Trim jagged stumps, using saws or pruning shears. Transplant and remove trees and shrubs, and prepare trees for moving. Spray trees to treat diseased or unhealthy trees, including mixing chemicals and calibrating spray equipment. Plan and develop budgets for tree work, and estimate the monetary value of trees. Water, root-feed, and fertilize trees. Apply tar or other protective substances to cut surfaces to seal surfaces, and to protect them from fungi and insects.
39-1011| Gaming Supervisors|Monitor game operations to ensure that house rules are followed, that tribal, state, and federal regulations are adhered to, and that employees provide prompt and courteous service. Observe gamblers' behavior for signs of cheating, such as marking, switching, or counting cards, and notify security staff of suspected cheating. Greet customers and ask about the quality of service they are receiving. Perform paperwork required for monetary transactions. Explain and interpret house rules, such as game rules or betting limits, for patrons. Maintain familiarity with the games at a facility and with strategies or tricks used by cheaters at such games. Resolve customer or employee complaints. Report customer-related incidents occurring in gaming areas to supervisors. Establish and maintain banks and table limits for each game. Monitor stations and games and move dealers from game to game to ensure adequate staffing. Evaluate workers' performance and prepare written performance evaluations. Monitor patrons for signs of compulsive gambling, offering assistance if necessary. Record, issue receipts for, and pay off bets. Monitor and verify the counting, wrapping, weighing, and distribution of currency and coins. Determine how many gaming tables to open each day and schedule staff accordingly. Direct workers compiling summary sheets for each race or event to record amounts wagered and amounts to be paid to winners. Supervise the distribution of complimentary meals, hotel rooms, discounts, or other items given to players, based on length of play and amount bet. Interview, hire, or train workers. Review operational expenses, budget estimates, betting accounts, or collection reports for accuracy. Establish policies on types of gambling offered, odds, or extension of credit. Provide fire protection or first-aid assistance when necessary.
39-1012| Slot Supervisors|Monitor payment of hand-delivered jackpots to ensure promptness. Monitor functioning of slot machine coin dispensers and fill coin hoppers when necessary. Respond to and resolve patrons' complaints. Patrol assigned areas to ensure that players are following rules and that machines are functioning correctly. Reset slot machines after payoffs. Perform minor repairs or make adjustments to slot machines, resolving problems such as machine tilts and coin jams. Record the specifics of malfunctioning machines and document malfunctions needing repair. Exchange currency for customers, converting currency into requested combinations of bills and coins. Answer patrons' questions about gaming machine functions and payouts. Attach "out of order" signs to malfunctioning machines, and notify technicians when machines need to be repaired or removed. Enforce safety rules, and report or remove safety hazards as well as guests who are underage, intoxicated, disruptive, or cheating. Coordinate and oversee the work of slot department workers, including change runners and slot technicians.
39-1021| First-Line Supervisors of Personal Service Workers|Assign work schedules, following work requirements, to ensure quality and timely delivery of service. Observe and evaluate workers' appearance and performance to ensure quality service and compliance with specifications. Train workers in proper operational procedures and functions and explain company policies. Resolve customer complaints regarding worker performance or services rendered. Recruit and hire staff members. Inspect work areas or operating equipment to ensure conformance to established standards in areas such as cleanliness or maintenance. Collaborate with staff members to plan or develop programs of events, schedules of activities, or menus. Meet with managers or other supervisors to stay informed of changes affecting operations. Direct or coordinate the activities of workers, such as flight attendants, hotel staff, or hair stylists. Take disciplinary action to address performance problems. Apply customer feedback to service improvement efforts. Requisition necessary supplies, equipment, or services. Analyze and record personnel or operational data and write related activity reports. Participate in continuing education to stay abreast of industry trends and developments. Furnish customers with information on events or activities. Inform workers about interests or special needs of specific groups. Direct marketing, advertising, or other customer recruitment efforts.
39-2011| Animal Trainers|Cue or signal animals during performances. Talk to or interact with animals to familiarize them to human voices or contact. Conduct training programs to develop or maintain desired animal behaviors for competition, entertainment, obedience, security, riding, or related purposes. Feed or exercise animals or provide other general care, such as cleaning or maintaining holding or performance areas. Observe animals' physical conditions to detect illness or unhealthy conditions requiring medical care. Evaluate animals to determine their temperaments, abilities, or aptitude for training. Administer prescribed medications to animals. Keep records documenting animal health, diet, or behavior. Evaluate animals for trainability and ability to perform. Advise animal owners regarding the purchase of specific animals. Train horses or other equines for riding, harness, show, racing, or other work, using knowledge of breed characteristics, training methods, performance standards, and the peculiarities of each animal. Use oral, spur, rein, or hand commands to condition horses to carry riders or to pull horse-drawn equipment. Retrain horses to break bad habits, such as kicking, bolting, or resisting bridling or grooming. Train dogs in human assistance or property protection duties. Train dogs to work as guides for the visually impaired. Place tack or harnesses on horses to accustom horses to the feel of equipment. Organize or conduct animal shows.
39-2021| Nonfarm Animal Caretakers|Feed and water animals according to schedules and feeding instructions. Mix food, liquid formulas, medications, or food supplements according to instructions, prescriptions, and knowledge of animal species. Examine and observe animals to detect signs of illness, disease, or injury. Provide treatment to sick or injured animals, or contact veterinarians to secure treatment. Do facility laundry and clean, organize, maintain, and disinfect animal quarters, such as pens and stables, and equipment, such as saddles and bridles. Perform animal grooming duties such as washing, brushing, clipping, and trimming coats, cutting nails, and cleaning ears. Answer telephones and schedule appointments. Respond to questions from patrons, and provide information about animals, such as behavior, habitat, breeding habits, or facility activities. Order, unload, and store feed and supplies. Collect and record animal information such as weight, size, physical condition, treatments received, medications given, and food intake. Adjust controls to regulate specified temperature and humidity of animal quarters, nurseries, or exhibit areas. Discuss with clients their pets' grooming needs. Observe and caution children petting and feeding animals in designated areas to ensure the safety of humans and animals. Anesthetize and inoculate animals, according to instructions. Transfer animals between enclosures to facilitate breeding, birthing, shipping, or rearrangement of exhibits. Clean and disinfect surgical equipment. Exercise animals to maintain their physical and mental health. Install, maintain, and repair animal care facility equipment such as infrared lights, feeding devices, and cages. Find homes for stray or unwanted animals. Train animals to perform certain tasks. Sell pet food and supplies.
39-3011| Gaming Dealers|Pay winnings or collect losing bets as established by the rules and procedures of a specific game. Stand behind a gaming table and deal the appropriate number of cards to each player. Deal cards to house hands, and compare these with players' hands to determine winners, as in black jack. Conduct gambling games such as dice, roulette, cards, or keno, following all applicable rules and regulations. Exchange paper currency for playing chips or coin money. Check to ensure that all players have placed bets before play begins. Start and control games and gaming equipment, and announce winning numbers or colors. Inspect cards and equipment to be used in games to ensure that they are in good condition. Apply rule variations to card games such as poker, in which players bet on the value of their hands. Open and close cash floats and game tables. Answer questions about game rules and casino policies. Refer patrons to gaming cashiers to collect winnings. Receive, verify, and record patrons' cash wagers. Supervise staff and monitor gambling tables to ensure security of the game. Work as part of a team of dealers in games such as baccarat or craps. Compute amounts of players' wins or losses, or scan winning tickets presented by patrons to calculate the amount of money won. Participate in games for gambling establishments to provide the minimum complement of players at a table. Seat patrons at gaming tables. Prepare collection reports for submission to supervisors. Train new dealers.
39-3012| Gaming and Sports Book Writers and Runners|Collect bets in the form of cash or chips, verifying and recording amounts. Collect cards or tickets from players. Compute and verify amounts won or lost, paying out winnings or referring patrons to workers, such as gaming cashiers, so that winnings can be collected. Answer questions about game rules or casino policies. Conduct gambling tables or games, such as dice, roulette, cards, or keno, and ensure that game rules are followed. Operate games in which players bet that a ball will come to rest in a particular slot on a rotating wheel, performing actions such as spinning the wheel and releasing the ball. Exchange paper currency for playing chips or coins. Compare the house hand with players' hands to determine the winner. Seat patrons at gaming tables. Open or close cash floats or game tables. Pay off or move bets as established by game rules and procedures. Start gaming equipment that randomly selects numbered balls and announce winning numbers and colors. Check to ensure that all players have placed their bets before play begins. Inspect cards or equipment to be used in games to ensure they are in proper condition. Record the number of tickets cashed and the amount paid out after each race or event. Prepare collection reports for submission to supervisors. Take the house percentage from each pot. Deliver tickets, cards, and money to bingo callers. Participate in games for gambling establishments to provide the minimum complement of players at a table. Sell food, beverages, or tobacco to players. Supervise staff and games and mediate disputes.
39-3021| Motion Picture Projectionists|Insert film into top magazine reel, or thread film through a series of sprockets and guide rollers, attaching the end to a take-up reel. Start projectors and open shutters to project images onto screens. Monitor operations to ensure that standards for sound and image projection quality are met. Operate equipment to show films in a number of theaters simultaneously. Splice separate film reels, advertisements, and movie trailers together to form a feature-length presentation on one continuous reel. Inspect movie films to ensure that they are complete and in good condition. Set up and adjust picture projectors and screens to achieve proper size, illumination, and focus of images, and proper volume and tone of sound. Inspect projection equipment prior to operation to ensure proper working order. Perform regular maintenance tasks such as rotating or replacing xenon bulbs, cleaning lenses, lubricating machinery, and keeping electrical contacts clean and tight. Remove film splicing to prepare films for shipment after showings and return films to their sources. Splice and rewind film onto reels automatically, or by hand, to repair faulty or broken sections of film. Perform minor repairs such as replacing worn sprockets, or notify maintenance personnel of the need for major repairs. Open and close facilities according to rules and schedules. Observe projector operation to anticipate need to transfer operations from one projector to another. Set up and inspect curtain and screen controls. Project motion pictures onto back screens for inclusion in scenes within film or stage productions. Remove full take-up reels and run film through rewinding machines to rewind projected films so they may be shown again. Operate special-effects equipment, such as stereopticons, to project pictures onto screens. Coordinate equipment operation with presentation of supplemental material, such as music, oral commentaries, or sound effects. Install and connect auxiliary equipment, such as microphones, amplifiers, disc playback machines, and lights. Prepare film inspection reports, attendance sheets, and log books.
39-3031| Ushers, Lobby Attendants, and Ticket Takers|Greet patrons attending entertainment events. Sell or collect admission tickets, passes, or facility memberships from patrons at entertainment events. Clean facilities. Settle seating disputes or help solve other customer concerns. Examine tickets or passes to verify authenticity, using criteria such as color or date issued. Provide assistance with patrons' special needs, such as helping those with wheelchairs. Guide patrons to exits or provide other instructions or assistance in case of emergency. Refuse admittance to undesirable persons or persons without tickets or passes. Assist patrons by giving directions to points in or outside of the facility or providing information about local attractions. Assist patrons in finding seats, lighting the way with flashlights, if necessary. Maintain order and ensure adherence to safety rules. Search for lost articles or for parents of lost children. Operate refreshment stands during intermission or obtain refreshments for press box patrons during performances. Count and record number of tickets collected. Lead tours and answer visitors' questions about the exhibits. Manage inventory or sale of artist merchandise. Verify credentials of patrons desiring entrance into press box and permit only authorized persons to enter. Distribute programs to patrons. Give door checks to patrons who are temporarily leaving establishments. Manage informational kiosks or displays of event signs or posters. Work with others to change advertising displays. Page individuals wanted at the box office. Schedule or manage staff, such as volunteer usher corps.
39-3091| Amusement and Recreation Attendants|Sell tickets and collect fees from customers. Sell and serve refreshments to customers. Record details of attendance, sales, receipts, reservations, or repair activities. Provide information about facilities, entertainment options, and rules and regulations. Direct patrons to rides, seats, or attractions. Monitor activities to ensure adherence to rules and safety procedures, or arrange for the removal of unruly patrons. Clean sporting equipment, vehicles, rides, booths, facilities, or grounds. Keep informed of shut-down and emergency evacuation procedures. Operate machines to clean, smooth, and prepare the ice surfaces of rinks for activities such as skating, hockey, and curling. Operate, drive, or explain the use of mechanical riding devices or other automatic equipment in amusement parks, carnivals, or recreation areas. Provide assistance to patrons entering or exiting amusement rides, boats, or ski lifts, or mounting or dismounting animals. Rent, sell, or issue sporting equipment and supplies such as bowling shoes, golf balls, swimming suits, and beach chairs. Fasten safety devices for patrons, or provide them with directions for fastening devices. Tend amusement booths in parks, carnivals, or stadiums, performing duties such as conducting games, photographing patrons, and awarding prizes. Verify, collect, or punch tickets before admitting patrons to venues such as amusement parks and rides. Inspect equipment to detect wear and damage and perform minor repairs, adjustments or maintenance tasks such as oiling parts. Maintain inventories of equipment, storing and retrieving items and assembling and disassembling equipment as necessary. Announce or describe amusement park attractions to patrons to entice customers to games and other entertainment. Schedule the use of recreation facilities such as golf courses, tennis courts, bowling alleys, and softball diamonds.
39-3092| Costume Attendants|Distribute costumes or related equipment and keep records of item status. Arrange costumes in order of use to facilitate quick-change procedures for performances. Return borrowed or rented items when productions are complete and return other items to storage. Clean and press costumes before and after performances and perform any minor repairs. Assign lockers to employees and maintain locker rooms, dressing rooms, wig rooms, or costume storage or laundry areas. Provide assistance to cast members in wearing costumes, or assign cast dressers to assist specific cast members with costume changes. Design or construct costumes or send them to tailors for construction, major repairs, or alterations. Purchase, rent, or requisition costumes or other wardrobe necessities. Check the appearance of costumes on stage or under lights to determine whether desired effects are being achieved. Inventory stock to determine types or conditions of available costuming. Collaborate with production designers, costume designers, or other production staff to discuss and execute costume design details. Monitor, maintain, or secure inventories of costumes, wigs, or makeup, providing keys or access to assigned directors, costume designers, or wardrobe mistresses/masters. Create worksheets for dressing lists, show notes, or costume checks. Direct the work of wardrobe crews during dress rehearsals or performances. Examine costume fit on cast members and sketch or write notes for alterations. Review scripts or other production information to determine a story's locale or period, as well as the number of characters and required costumes. Recommend vendors and monitor their work. Study books, pictures, or examples of period clothing to determine styles worn during specific periods in history.
39-3093| Locker Room, Coatroom, and Dressing Room Attendants|Provide towels and sheets to clients in public baths, steam rooms, and restrooms. Assign dressing room facilities, locker space, or clothing containers to patrons of athletic or bathing establishments. Check supplies to ensure adequate availability, and order new supplies when necessary. Monitor patrons' facility use to ensure that rules and regulations are followed, and safety and order are maintained. Clean facilities such as floors and locker rooms. Answer customer inquiries or explain cost, availability, policies, and procedures of facilities. Refer guest problems or complaints to supervisors. Maintain a lost-and-found collection. Clean and polish footwear, using brushes, sponges, cleaning fluid, polishes, waxes, liquid or sole dressing, and daubers. Activate emergency action plans and administer first aid, as necessary. Procure beverages, food, and other items as requested. Collect soiled linen or clothing for laundering. Store personal possessions for patrons, issue claim checks for articles stored, and return articles on receipt of checks. Operate washing machines and dryers to clean soiled apparel and towels. Maintain inventories of clothing or uniforms, accessories, equipment, or linens. Attend to needs of athletic teams in clubhouses. Provide assistance to patrons by performing duties such as opening doors and carrying bags. Operate controls that regulate temperatures or room environments. Issue gym clothes, uniforms, towels, athletic equipment, and special athletic apparel. Provide or arrange for services such as clothes pressing, cleaning, and repair. Report and document safety hazards, potentially hazardous conditions, and unsafe practices and procedures. Stencil identifying information on equipment.
39-4011| Embalmers|Dress bodies and place them in caskets. Conform to laws of health and sanitation and ensure that legal requirements concerning embalming are met. Close incisions, using needles and sutures. Attach trocar to pump-tube, start pump, and repeat probing to force embalming fluid into organs. Wash and dry bodies, using germicidal soap and towels or hot air dryers. Incise stomach and abdominal walls and probe internal organs, using trocar, to withdraw blood and waste matter from organs. Join lips, using needles and thread or wire. Reshape or reconstruct disfigured or maimed bodies when necessary, using dermasurgery techniques and materials such as clay, cotton, plaster of Paris, and wax. Pack body orifices with cotton saturated with embalming fluid to prevent escape of gases or waste matter. Make incisions in arms or thighs and drain blood from circulatory system and replace it with embalming fluid, using pump. Maintain records such as itemized lists of clothing or valuables delivered with body and names of persons embalmed. Apply cosmetics to impart lifelike appearance to the deceased. Remove the deceased from place of death and transport to funeral home. Insert convex celluloid or cotton between eyeballs and eyelids to prevent slipping and sinking of eyelids. Perform the duties of funeral directors, including coordinating funeral activities. Assist with placing caskets in hearses and organize cemetery processions. Serve as pallbearers, attend visiting rooms, and provide other assistance to the bereaved. Conduct interviews to arrange for the preparation of obituary notices, to assist with the selection of caskets or urns, and to determine the location and time of burials or cremations. Arrange funeral home equipment and perform general maintenance. Perform special procedures necessary for remains that are to be transported to other states or overseas, or where death was caused by infectious disease. Arrange for transporting the deceased to another state for interment. Direct casket and floral display placement and arrange guest seating. Supervise funeral attendants and other funeral home staff. Press diaphragm to evacuate air from lungs. Assist coroners at death scenes or at autopsies, file police reports, and testify at inquests or in court, if employed by a coroner.
39-4021| Funeral Attendants|Greet people at the funeral home. Perform a variety of tasks during funerals to assist funeral directors and to ensure that services run smoothly and as planned. Transport the deceased to the funeral home. Direct or escort mourners to parlors or chapels in which wakes or funerals are being held. Close caskets at appropriate point in services. Attend to the needs of the bereaved, such as by offering comfort, counseling, or after care programs. Offer assistance to mourners as they enter or exit limousines. Place caskets in parlors or chapels prior to wakes or funerals. Clean and drive funeral vehicles, such as cars or hearses, in funeral processions. Carry flowers to hearses or limousines for transportation to places of interment. Arrange floral offerings or lights around caskets. Perform various administrative tasks, such as typing documents or answering telephone calls. Supervise funeral processions and assist with cemetery parking. Act as pallbearers. Clean funeral parlors or chapels. Deliver floral arrangements or other items to family members of the deceased. Issue and store funeral equipment. Perform general maintenance tasks for funeral homes, such as maintaining equipment or caring for funeral grounds. Provide advice to mourners on how to make charitable donations in honor of the deceased. Embalm, dress, cosmeticize, and casket the deceased. Manage funeral home finances, including receiving payments, making bank deposits, or performing general bookkeeping duties. Assist with cremations and the processing and packaging of cremated remains. Obtain burial permits and register deaths. Obtain doctors' signatures on death certificate and complete other paperwork, such as insurance claims forms. Meet with family members to plan the funeral. Prepare obituaries for newspapers.
39-4031| Morticians, Undertakers, and Funeral Directors|Obtain information needed to complete legal documents, such as death certificates or burial permits. Oversee the preparation and care of the remains of people who have died. Consult with families or friends of the deceased to arrange funeral details, such as obituary notice wording, casket selection, or plans for services. Plan, schedule, or coordinate funerals, burials, or cremations, arranging details such as floral delivery or the time and place of services. Perform embalming duties as necessary. Arrange for clergy members to perform needed services. Contact cemeteries to schedule the opening and closing of graves. Provide information on funeral service options, products, or merchandise and maintain a casket display area. Close caskets and lead funeral corteges to churches or burial sites. Inform survivors of benefits for which they may be eligible. Offer counsel and comfort to bereaved families or friends. Discuss and negotiate prearranged funerals with clients. Maintain financial records, order merchandise, or prepare accounts. Provide or arrange transportation between sites for the remains, mourners, pallbearers, clergy, or flowers. Plan placement of caskets at funeral sites or place or adjust lights, fixtures, or floral displays. Direct preparations and shipment of bodies for out-of-state burial. Manage funeral home operations, including the hiring, training, or supervision of embalmers, funeral attendants, or other staff. Clean funeral home facilities and grounds. Arrange for pallbearers or inform pallbearers or honorary groups of their duties. Receive or usher people to their seats for services. Participate in community activities for funeral home promotion or other purposes.
39-5011| Barbers|Clean and sterilize scissors, combs, clippers, and other instruments. Cut and trim hair according to clients' instructions or current hairstyles, using clippers, combs, hand-held blow driers, and scissors. Drape and pin protective cloths around customers' shoulders. Question patrons regarding desired services and haircut styles. Clean work stations and sweep floors. Record services provided on cashiers' tickets or receive payment from customers. Order supplies. Shape and trim beards and moustaches, using scissors. Stay informed of the latest styles and hair care techniques. Suggest treatments to alleviate hair problems. Shampoo hair. Keep card files on clientele, recording notes of work done, products used and fees charged after each visit. Perform clerical and administrative duties such as keeping records, paying bills, and hiring and supervising personnel. Curl, color, or straighten hair, using special chemical solutions and equipment. Apply lather and shave beards or neck and temple hair contours, using razors. Measure, fit, and groom hairpieces. Recommend and sell lotions, tonics, or other cosmetic supplies. Provide face, neck, and scalp massages. Provide skin care and nail treatments.
39-5012| Hairdressers, Hairstylists, and Cosmetologists|Keep work stations clean and sanitize tools such as scissors and combs. Cut, trim and shape hair or hairpieces, based on customers' instructions, hair type and facial features, using clippers, scissors, trimmers and razors. Analyze patrons' hair and other physical features to determine and recommend beauty treatment or suggest hair styles. Schedule client appointments. Bleach, dye, or tint hair, using applicator or brush. Update and maintain customer information records, such as beauty services provided. Shampoo, rinse, condition and dry hair and scalp or hairpieces with water, liquid soap, or other solutions. Operate cash registers to receive payments from patrons. Demonstrate and sell hair care products and cosmetics. Develop new styles and techniques. Apply water, setting, straightening or waving solutions to hair and use curlers, rollers, hot combs and curling irons to press and curl hair. Comb, brush, and spray hair or wigs to set style. Shape eyebrows and remove facial hair, using depilatory cream, tweezers, electrolysis or wax. Administer therapeutic medication and advise patron to seek medical treatment for chronic or contagious scalp conditions. Massage and treat scalp for hygienic and remedial purposes, using hands, fingers, or vibrating equipment. Shave, trim and shape beards and moustaches. Train or supervise other hairstylists, hairdressers and assistants. Recommend and explain the use of cosmetics, lotions, and creams to soften and lubricate skin and enhance and restore natural appearance. Give facials to patrons, using special compounds such as lotions and creams. Clean, shape, and polish fingernails and toenails, using files and nail polish. Apply artificial fingernails.
39-5091| Makeup Artists, Theatrical and Performance|Confer with stage or motion picture officials and performers in order to determine desired effects. Duplicate work precisely in order to replicate characters' appearances on a daily basis. Establish budgets, and work within budgetary limits. Apply makeup to enhance, and/or alter the appearance of people appearing in productions such as movies. Alter or maintain makeup during productions as necessary to compensate for lighting changes or to achieve continuity of effect. Select desired makeup shades from stock, or mix oil, grease, and coloring in order to achieve specific color effects. Cleanse and tone the skin in order to prepare it for makeup application. Assess performers' skin-type in order to ensure that make-up will not cause break-outs or skin irritations. Analyze a script, noting events that affect each character's appearance, so that plans can be made for each scene. Requisition or acquire needed materials for special effects, including wigs, beards, and special cosmetics. Write makeup sheets and take photos in order to document specific looks and the products that were used to achieve the looks. Examine sketches, photographs, and plaster models in order to obtain desired character image depiction. Attach prostheses to performers and apply makeup in order to create special features or effects such as scars, aging, or illness. Evaluate environmental characteristics such as venue size and lighting plans in order to determine makeup requirements. Design rubber or plastic prostheses that can be used to change performers' appearances. Create character drawings or models, based upon independent research, in order to augment period production files. Advise hairdressers on the hairstyles required for character parts. Study production information, such as character descriptions, period settings, and situations in order to determine makeup requirements. Provide performers with makeup removal assistance after performances have been completed. Wash and reset wigs. Demonstrate products to clients, and provide instruction in makeup application.
39-5092| Manicurists and Pedicurists|Clean and sanitize tools and work environment. Apply undercoat and clear or colored polish onto nails with brush. Maintain supply inventories and records of client services. Shape and smooth ends of nails, using scissors, files, or emery boards. Prepare nail cuticles with water and oil, using cuticle knives to push back cuticles and scissors or nippers to trim cuticles. Prepare customers' nails in soapy water, using swabs, files, and orange sticks. Remove previously applied nail polish, using liquid remover and swabs. Use rotary abrasive wheels to shape and smooth nails or artificial extensions. Schedule client appointments and accept payments. Assess the condition of clients' hands, remove dead skin, and massage hands. Roughen surfaces of fingernails, using abrasive wheel. Advise clients on nail care and use of products and colors. Treat nails to repair or improve strength and resilience by wrapping. Extend nails using powder, solvent, and paper forms attached to tips of customers' fingers to support and shape artificial nails. Polish nails, using powdered polish and buffer. Whiten underside of nails with white paste or pencils. Promote and sell nail care products. Decorate clients' nails by piercing or attaching ornaments or designs.
39-5093| Shampooers|Massage, shampoo, and condition patron's hair and scalp to clean them and remove excess oil. Advise patrons with chronic or potentially contagious scalp conditions to seek medical treatment. Treat scalp conditions and hair loss, using specialized lotions, shampoos, or equipment such as infrared lamps or vibrating equipment. Maintain treatment records.
39-5094| Skincare Specialists|Sterilize equipment and clean work areas. Examine clients' skin, using magnifying lamps or visors when necessary, to evaluate skin condition and appearance. Cleanse clients' skin with water, creams, or lotions. Demonstrate how to clean and care for skin properly and recommend skin-care regimens. Select and apply cosmetic products such as creams, lotions, and tonics. Perform simple extractions to remove blackheads. Stay abreast of latest industry trends, products, research, and treatments. Determine which products or colors will improve clients' skin quality and appearance. Treat the facial skin to maintain and improve its appearance, using specialized techniques and products, such as peels and masks. Refer clients to medical personnel for treatment of serious skin problems. Remove body and facial hair by applying wax. Provide facial and body massages. Keep records of client needs and preferences and the services provided. Apply chemical peels to reduce fine lines and age spots. Advise clients about colors and types of makeup and instruct them in makeup application techniques. Collaborate with plastic surgeons and dermatologists to provide patients with preoperative and postoperative skin care. Sell makeup to clients.
39-6011| Baggage Porters and Bellhops|Transfer luggage, trunks, and packages to and from rooms, loading areas, vehicles, or transportation terminals, by hand or using baggage carts. Greet incoming guests and escort them to their rooms. Receive and mark baggage by completing and attaching claim checks. Supply guests or travelers with directions, travel information, and other information, such as available services and points of interest. Assist physically challenged travelers and other guests with special needs. Transport guests about premises and local areas, or arrange for transportation. Maintain clean lobbies or entrance areas for travelers or guests. Deliver messages and room service orders, and run errands for guests. Act as part of the security team at transportation terminals, hotels, or similar establishments. Explain the operation of room features, such as locks, ventilation systems, and televisions. Inspect guests' rooms to ensure that they are adequately stocked, orderly, and comfortable. Arrange for shipments of baggage, express mail, and parcels by providing weighing and billing services. Pick up and return items for laundry and valet service. Compute and complete charge slips for services rendered and maintain records. Page guests in hotel lobbies, dining rooms, or other areas. Complete baggage insurance forms. Set up conference rooms, display tables, racks, or shelves, and arrange merchandise displays for sales personnel.
39-6012| Concierges|Make reservations for patrons, such as for dinner, spa treatments, or golf tee times, and obtain tickets to special events. Provide information about local features, such as shopping, dining, nightlife, or recreational destinations. Make travel arrangements for sightseeing or other tours. Receive, store, or deliver luggage or mail. Carry out unusual requests, such as searching for hard-to-find items or arranging for exotic services, such as hot-air balloon rides. Pick up and deliver items or run errands for guests. Provide directions to guests. Arrange for interpreters or translators when patrons require such services. Provide business services for guests, such as sending or receiving faxes or shipping packages. Plan special events, parties, or meetings, which may include booking musicians or celebrities. Arrange childcare services for guests. Perform office duties on a temporary basis when needed. Arrange for the replacement of items lost by travelers. Clean and tidy hotel lounge. Provide food and beverage services to guests.
39-7011| Tour Guides and Escorts|Describe tour points of interest to group members, and respond to questions. Escort individuals or groups on cruises, sightseeing tours, or through places of interest such as industrial establishments, public buildings, and art galleries. Conduct educational activities for school children. Monitor visitors' activities to ensure compliance with establishment or tour regulations and safety practices. Provide directions and other pertinent information to visitors. Greet and register visitors, and issue any required identification badges or safety devices. Distribute brochures, show audiovisual presentations, and explain establishment processes and operations at tour sites. Research various topics, including site history, environmental conditions, and clients' skills and abilities to plan appropriate expeditions, instruction, and commentary. Select travel routes and sites to be visited based on knowledge of specific areas. Drive motor vehicles to transport visitors to establishments and tour site locations. Collect fees and tickets from group members. Assemble and check the required supplies and equipment prior to departure. Provide for physical safety of groups, performing such activities as providing first aid and directing emergency evacuations. Train other guides and volunteers. Perform clerical duties such as filing, typing, operating switchboards, and routing mail and messages. Solicit tour patronage and sell souvenirs. Speak foreign languages to communicate with foreign visitors. Teach skills, such as proper climbing methods, and demonstrate and advise on the use of equipment.
39-7012| Travel Guides|Plan tour itineraries, applying knowledge of travel routes and destination sites. Resolve any problems with itineraries, service, or accommodations. Sell travel packages. Arrange for tour or expedition details such as accommodations, transportation, equipment, and the availability of medical personnel. Evaluate services received on the tour, and report findings to tour organizers. Lead individuals or groups to tour site locations and describe points of interest. Verify amounts and quality of equipment prior to expeditions or tours. Pay bills and record checks issued. Attend to special needs of tour participants. Give advice on sightseeing and shopping. Provide tourists with assistance in obtaining permits and documents such as visas, passports, and health certificates, and in converting currency. Administer first aid to injured group participants. Pilot airplanes or drive land and water vehicles to transport tourists to activity or tour sites. Set up camps, and prepare meals for tour group members. Instruct novices in climbing techniques, mountaineering, and wilderness survival, and demonstrate use of hunting, fishing, and climbing equipment.
39-9011| Childcare Workers|Maintain a safe play environment. Dress children and change diapers. Observe and monitor children's play activities. Communicate with children's parents or guardians about daily activities, behaviors, and related issues. Sanitize toys and play equipment. Keep records on individual children, including daily observations and information about activities, meals served, and medications administered. Support children's emotional and social development, encouraging understanding of others and positive self-concepts. Identify signs of emotional or developmental problems in children and bring them to parents' or guardians' attention. Assist in preparing food and serving meals and refreshments to children. Instruct children in health and personal habits, such as eating, resting, and toilet habits. Create developmentally appropriate lesson plans. Read to children and teach them simple painting, drawing, handicrafts, and songs. Discipline children and recommend or initiate other measures to control behavior, such as caring for own clothing and picking up toys and books. Regulate children's rest periods. Perform general administrative tasks, such as taking attendance, editing internal paperwork, and making phone calls. Perform housekeeping duties, such as laundry, cleaning, dish washing, and changing of linens. Organize and store toys and materials to ensure order in activity areas. Organize and participate in recreational activities and outings, such as games and field trips. Provide care for mentally disturbed, delinquent, or handicapped children. Care for children in institutional setting, such as group homes, nursery schools, private businesses, or schools for the handicapped. Operate in-house day-care centers within businesses. Perform general personnel functions, such as supervision, training, and scheduling. Help children with homework and school work. Sterilize bottles and prepare formulas. Accompany children to and from school, on outings, and to medical appointments. Place or hoist children into baths or pools.
39-9021| Personal Care Aides|Administer bedside or personal care, such as ambulation or personal hygiene assistance. Prepare and maintain records of client progress and services performed, reporting changes in client condition to manager or supervisor. Perform healthcare-related tasks, such as monitoring vital signs and medication, under the direction of registered nurses or physiotherapists. Participate in case reviews, consulting with the team caring for the client, to evaluate the client's needs and plan for continuing services. Care for individuals or families during periods of incapacitation, family disruption, or convalescence, providing companionship, personal care, or help in adjusting to new lifestyles. Perform housekeeping duties, such as cooking, cleaning, washing clothes or dishes, or running errands. Instruct or advise clients on issues such as household cleanliness, utilities, hygiene, nutrition, or infant care. Plan, shop for, or prepare nutritious meals or assist families in planning, shopping for, or preparing nutritious meals. Transport clients to locations outside the home, such as to physicians' offices or on outings, using a motor vehicle. Provide clients with communication assistance, typing their correspondence or obtaining information for them. Train family members to provide bedside care.
39-9031| Fitness Trainers and Aerobics Instructors|Offer alternatives during classes to accommodate different levels of fitness. Plan routines, choose appropriate music, and choose different movements for each set of muscles, depending on participants' capabilities and limitations. Evaluate individuals' abilities, needs, and physical conditions, and develop suitable training programs to meet any special requirements. Observe participants and inform them of corrective measures necessary for skill improvement. Monitor participants' progress and adapt programs as needed. Teach proper breathing techniques used during physical exertion. Instruct participants in maintaining exertion levels to maximize benefits from exercise routines. Teach and demonstrate use of gymnastic and training equipment such as trampolines and weights. Explain and enforce safety rules and regulations governing sports, recreational activities, and the use of exercise equipment. Provide students with information and resources regarding nutrition, weight control, and lifestyle issues. Conduct therapeutic, recreational, or athletic activities. Administer emergency first aid, wrap injuries, treat minor chronic disabilities, or refer injured persons to physicians. Maintain fitness equipment. Advise clients about proper clothing and shoes. Teach individual and team sports to participants through instruction and demonstration, utilizing knowledge of sports techniques and of participants' physical capabilities. Plan physical education programs to promote development of participants' physical attributes and social skills. Maintain equipment inventories, and select, store, or issue equipment as needed. Promote health clubs through membership sales, and record member information.
39-9032| Recreation Workers|Enforce rules and regulations of recreational facilities to maintain discipline and ensure safety. Manage the daily operations of recreational facilities. Administer first aid according to prescribed procedures and notify emergency medical personnel when necessary. Organize, lead, and promote interest in recreational activities, such as arts, crafts, sports, games, camping, and hobbies. Greet new arrivals to activities, introducing them to other participants, explaining facility rules, and encouraging participation. Supervise and coordinate the work activities of personnel, such as training staff members and assigning work duties. Confer with management to discuss and resolve participant complaints. Explain principles, techniques, and safety procedures to participants in recreational activities and demonstrate use of materials and equipment. Complete and maintain time and attendance forms and inventory lists. Evaluate recreation areas, facilities, and services to determine if they are producing desired results. Ascertain and interpret group interests, evaluate equipment and facilities, and adapt activities to meet participant needs. Encourage participants to develop their own activities and leadership skills through group discussions. Meet and collaborate with agency personnel, community organizations, and other professional personnel to plan balanced recreational programs for participants. Meet with staff to discuss rules, regulations, and work-related problems. Direct special activities or events, such as aquatics, gymnastics, or performing arts. Provide for entertainment and set up related decorations and equipment. Conduct individual in-room visits with residents. Serve as liaison between park or recreation administrators and activity instructors. Evaluate staff performance, recording evaluations on appropriate forms. Schedule maintenance and use of facilities. Take residents on community outings. Oversee the purchase, planning, design, construction, and upkeep of recreation facilities and areas.
39-9041| Residential Advisors|Enforce rules and regulations to ensure the smooth and orderly operation of dormitory programs. Provide emergency first aid and summon medical assistance when necessary. Mediate interpersonal problems between residents. Make regular rounds to ensure that residents and areas are safe and secure. Observe students to detect and report unusual behavior. Communicate with other staff to resolve problems with individual students. Counsel students in the handling of issues such as family, financial, and educational problems. Collaborate with counselors to develop counseling programs that address the needs of individual students. Develop and coordinate educational programs for residents. Develop program plans for individuals or assist in plan development. Provide requested information on students' progress and the development of case plans. Hold regular meetings with each assigned unit. Supervise students' housekeeping work to ensure that it is done properly. Administer, coordinate, or recommend disciplinary and corrective actions. Confer with medical personnel to better understand the backgrounds and needs of individual residents. Answer telephones, and route calls or deliver messages. Determine the need for facility maintenance and repair, and notify appropriate personnel. Supervise, train, and evaluate residence hall staff, including resident assistants, participants in work-study programs and other student workers. Oversee departmental budget. Supervise the activities of housekeeping personnel. Compile information such as residents' daily activities and the quantities of supplies used to prepare required reports. Chaperone group-sponsored trips and social functions. Process contract cancellations for students who are unable to follow residence hall policies and procedures. Provide transportation or escort for expeditions such as shopping trips or visits to doctors or dentists. Order supplies for facilities. Assign rooms to students. Direct and participate in on- and off-campus recreational activities for residents of institutions, boarding schools, fraternities or sororities, children's homes, or similar establishments. Accompany and supervise students during meals. Sort and distribute mail. Inventory, pack, and remove items left behind by former residents.
41-1011| First-Line Supervisors of Retail Sales Workers|Provide customer service by greeting and assisting customers and responding to customer inquiries and complaints. Direct and supervise employees engaged in sales, inventory-taking, reconciling cash receipts, or in performing services for customers. Monitor sales activities to ensure that customers receive satisfactory service and quality goods. Inventory stock and reorder when inventory drops to a specified level. Instruct staff on how to handle difficult and complicated sales. Hire, train, and evaluate personnel in sales or marketing establishments, promoting or firing workers when appropriate. Assign employees to specific duties. Enforce safety, health, and security rules. Examine merchandise to ensure that it is correctly priced and displayed and that it functions as advertised. Plan budgets and authorize payments and merchandise returns. Perform work activities of subordinates, such as cleaning and organizing shelves and displays and selling merchandise. Plan and prepare work schedules and keep records of employees' work schedules and time cards. Review inventory and sales records to prepare reports for management and budget departments. Examine products purchased for resale or received for storage to assess the condition of each product or item. Establish and implement policies, goals, objectives, and procedures for their department. Confer with company officials to develop methods and procedures to increase sales, expand markets, and promote business. Estimate consumer demand and determine the types and amounts of goods to be sold. Formulate pricing policies for merchandise, according to profitability requirements. Establish credit policies and operating procedures. Keep records of purchases, sales, and requisitions. Plan and coordinate advertising campaigns and sales promotions and prepare merchandise displays and advertising copy.
41-1012| First-Line Supervisors of Non-Retail Sales Workers|Confer with company officials to develop methods and procedures to increase sales, expand markets, and promote business. Listen to and resolve customer complaints regarding services, products, or personnel. Provide staff with assistance in performing difficult or complicated duties. Monitor sales staff performance to ensure that goals are met. Formulate pricing policies on merchandise according to profitability requirements. Hire, train, and evaluate personnel. Analyze details of sales territories to assess their growth potential and to set quotas. Attend company meetings to exchange product information and coordinate work activities with other departments. Prepare sales and inventory reports for management and budget departments. Plan and prepare work schedules, and assign employees to specific duties. Direct and supervise employees engaged in sales, inventory-taking, reconciling cash receipts, or performing specific services. Visit retailers and sales representatives to promote products and gather information. Prepare rental or lease agreements, specifying charges and payment procedures for use of machinery, tools, or other items.
41-2011| Cashiers|Receive payment by cash, check, credit cards, vouchers, or automatic debits. Issue receipts, refunds, credits, or change due to customers. Assist customers by providing information and resolving their complaints. Establish or identify prices of goods, services or admission, and tabulate bills using calculators, cash registers, or optical price scanners. Greet customers entering establishments. Answer customers' questions, and provide information on procedures or policies. Sell tickets and other items to customers. Process merchandise returns and exchanges. Maintain clean and orderly checkout areas and complete other general cleaning duties, such as mopping floors and emptying trash cans. Stock shelves, and mark prices on shelves and items. Request information or assistance using paging systems. Count money in cash drawers at the beginning of shifts to ensure that amounts are correct and that there is adequate change. Calculate total payments received during a time period, and reconcile this with total sales. Monitor checkout stations to ensure that they have adequate cash available and that they are staffed appropriately. Assist with duties in other areas of the store, such as monitoring fitting rooms or bagging and carrying out customers' items. Sort, count, and wrap currency and coins. Supervise others and provide on-the-job training. Bag, box, wrap, or gift-wrap merchandise, and prepare packages for shipment. Compute and record totals of transactions. Compile and maintain non-monetary reports and records. Post charges against guests' or patients' accounts. Offer customers carry-out service at the completion of transactions. Weigh items sold by weight to determine prices. Issue trading stamps and redeem food stamps and coupons. Keep periodic balance sheets of amounts and numbers of transactions. Cash checks for customers. Pay company bills by cash, vouchers, or checks.
41-2012| Gaming Change Persons and Booth Cashiers|Keep accurate records of monetary exchanges, authorization forms, and transaction reconciliations. Exchange money, credit, and casino chips, and make change for customers. Maintain cage security according to rules. Count money and audit money drawers. Reconcile daily summaries of transactions to balance books. Listen for jackpot alarm bells and issue payoffs to winners. Sell gambling chips, tokens, or tickets to patrons, or to other workers for resale to patrons. Obtain customers' signatures on receipts when winnings exceed the amount held in a slot machine. Calculate the value of chips won or lost by players. Work in and monitor an assigned area on the casino floor where slot machines are located. Accept credit applications and verify credit references to provide check-cashing authorization or to establish house credit accounts. Furnish change persons with a money bank at the start of each shift. Perform minor repairs on slot machines, such as clearing coin jams.
41-2021| Counter and Rental Clerks|Greet customers and discuss the type, quality, and quantity of merchandise sought for rental. Compute charges for merchandise or services and receive payments. Answer telephones to provide information and receive orders. Provide information about rental items, such as availability, operation, or description. Rent items, arrange for provision of services to customers, and accept returns. Inspect and adjust rental items to meet needs of customer. Explain rental fees, policies, and procedures. Prepare rental forms, obtaining customer signature and other information, such as required licenses. Keep records of transactions and of the number of customers entering an establishment. Reserve items for requested times and keep records of items rented. Recommend and provide advice on a wide variety of products and services. Receive orders for services, such as rentals, repairs, dry cleaning, and storage. Prepare merchandise for display or for purchase or rental. Advise customers on use and care of merchandise. Receive, examine, and tag articles to be altered, cleaned, stored, or repaired.
41-2022| Parts Salespersons|Receive and fill telephone orders for parts. Fill customer orders from stock and place orders when requested items are out of stock. Receive payment or obtain credit authorization. Read catalogs, microfiche viewers, or computer displays to determine replacement part stock numbers and prices. Prepare sales slips or sales contracts. Determine replacement parts required, according to inspections of old parts, customer requests, or customers' descriptions of malfunctions. Assist customers, such as responding to customer complaints and updating them about back-ordered parts. Locate and label parts and maintain inventory of stock. Mark and store parts in stockrooms according to prearranged systems. Pick up and deliver parts. Discuss use and features of various parts, based on knowledge of machines or equipment. Examine returned parts for defects, and exchange defective parts or refund money. Maintain and clean work and inventory areas. Manage shipments by researching shipping methods or costs and tracking packages. Advise customers on substitution or modification of parts when identical replacements are not available. Place new merchandise on display. Demonstrate equipment to customers and explain functioning of equipment. Measure parts, using precision measuring instruments, to determine whether similar parts may be machined to required sizes. Repair parts or equipment.
41-2031|Retail Salespersons|Greet customers and ascertain what each customer wants or needs. Describe merchandise and explain use, operation, and care of merchandise to customers. Recommend, select, and help locate or obtain merchandise based on customer needs and desires. Compute sales prices, total purchases, and receive and process cash or credit payment. Answer questions regarding the store and its merchandise. Prepare sales slips or sales contracts. Maintain knowledge of current sales and promotions, policies regarding payment and exchanges, and security practices. Maintain records related to sales. Demonstrate use or operation of merchandise. Place special orders or call other stores to find desired items. Prepare merchandise for purchase or rental. Watch for and recognize security risks and thefts and know how to prevent or handle these situations. Inventory stock and requisition new stock. Ticket, arrange, and display merchandise to promote sales. Exchange merchandise for customers and accept returns. Clean shelves, counters, and tables. Help customers try on or fit merchandise. Sell or arrange for delivery, insurance, financing, or service contracts for merchandise. Estimate and quote trade-in allowances. Open and close cash registers, performing tasks such as counting money, separating charge slips, coupons, and vouchers, balancing cash drawers, and making deposits. Estimate quantity and cost of merchandise required, such as paint or floor covering. Bag or package purchases and wrap gifts. Estimate cost of repair or alteration of merchandise. Rent merchandise to customers.
41-3011| Advertising Sales Agents|Maintain assigned account bases while developing new accounts. Explain to customers how specific types of advertising will help promote their products or services in the most effective way possible. Provide clients with estimates of the costs of advertising products or services. Locate and contact potential clients to offer advertising services. Process all correspondence and paperwork related to accounts. Prepare and deliver sales presentations to new and existing customers to sell new advertising programs and to protect and increase existing advertising. Inform customers of available options for advertisement artwork and provide samples. Deliver advertising or illustration proofs to customers for approval. Prepare promotional plans, sales literature, media kits, and sales contracts, using computer. Recommend appropriate sizes and formats for advertising, depending on medium being used. Draw up contracts for advertising work and collect payments due. Obtain and study information about clients' products, needs, problems, advertising history, and business practices to offer effective sales presentations and appropriate product assistance. Write copy as part of layout. Consult with company officials, sales departments, and advertising agencies to develop promotional plans. Identify new advertising markets and propose products to serve them. Determine advertising medium to be used and prepare sample advertisements within the selected medium for presentation to customers. Attend sales meetings, industry trade shows, and training seminars to gather information, promote products, expand network of contacts, and increase knowledge. Gather all relevant material for bid processes and coordinate bidding and contract approval. Arrange for commercial taping sessions and accompany clients to sessions. Write sales outlines for use by staff.
41-3021| Insurance Sales Agents|Sell various types of insurance policies to businesses and individuals on behalf of insurance companies, including automobile, fire, life, property, medical and dental insurance, or specialized policies, such as marine, farm/crop, and medical malpractice. Interview prospective clients to obtain data about their financial resources and needs, the physical condition of the person or property to be insured, and to discuss any existing coverage. Call on policyholders to deliver and explain policy, to analyze insurance program and suggest additions or changes, or to change beneficiaries. Seek out new clients and develop clientele by networking to find new customers and generate lists of prospective clients. Ensure that policy requirements are fulfilled, including any necessary medical examinations and the completion of appropriate forms. Customize insurance programs to suit individual customers, often covering a variety of risks. Explain features, advantages, and disadvantages of various policies to promote sale of insurance plans. Calculate premiums and establish payment method. Inspect property, examining its general condition, type of construction, age, and other characteristics, to decide if it is a good insurance risk. Perform administrative tasks, such as maintaining records and handling policy renewals. Select company that offers type of coverage requested by client to underwrite policy. Develop marketing strategies to compete with other individuals or companies who sell insurance. Contact underwriter and submit forms to obtain binder coverage. Confer with clients to obtain and provide information when claims are made on a policy. Monitor insurance claims to ensure they are settled equitably for both the client and the insurer. Attend meetings, seminars, and programs to learn about new products and services, learn new skills, and receive technical assistance in developing new accounts. Plan and oversee incorporation of insurance program into bookkeeping system of company. Install bookkeeping systems and resolve system problems. Explain necessary bookkeeping requirements for customer to implement and provide group insurance program.
41-3031| Securities, Commodities, and Financial Services Sales Agents|Keep accurate records of transactions. Complete sales order tickets and submit for processing of client-requested transactions. Interview clients to determine clients' assets, liabilities, cash flow, insurance coverage, tax status, or financial objectives. Discuss financial options with clients and keep them informed about transactions. Develop financial plans, based on analysis of clients' financial status. Review all securities transactions to ensure accuracy of information and conformance to governing agency regulations. Inform and advise concerned parties regarding fluctuations or securities transactions affecting plans or accounts. Review financial periodicals, stock and bond reports, business publications, or other material to identify potential investments for clients or to keep abreast of trends affecting market conditions. Offer advice on the purchase or sale of particular securities. Contact prospective customers to determine customer needs, present information, or explain available services. Analyze market conditions to determine optimum times to execute securities transactions. Explain stock market terms or trading practices to clients. Prepare documents needed to implement plans selected by clients. Calculate costs for billings or commissions. Prepare financial reports to monitor client or corporate finances. Supply the latest price quotes on any security, as well as information on the activities or financial positions of the corporations issuing these securities. Identify potential clients, using advertising campaigns, mailing lists, or personal contacts. Relay buy or sell orders to securities exchanges or to firm trading departments. Read corporate reports and calculate ratios to determine best prospects for profit on stock purchases.Determine customers' financial services needs and prepare proposals to sell services that address these needs. Prepare forms or agreements to complete sales. Sell services or equipment, such as trusts, investments, or check processing services. Contact prospective customers to present information and explain available services. Develop prospects from current commercial customers, referral leads, or sales or trade meetings. Evaluate costs and revenue of agreements to determine continued profitability. Review business trends to advise customers regarding expected fluctuations. Make presentations on financial services to groups to attract new clients.Make bids or offers to buy or sell securities. Monitor markets or positions. Agree on buying or selling prices at optimal levels for clients. Buy or sell stocks, bonds, commodity futures, foreign currencies, or other securities on behalf of investment dealers. Report all positions or trading results. Identify opportunities or develop channels for purchase or sale of securities or commodities. Devise trading, option, or hedge strategies. Track and analyze factors that affect price movement, such as trade policies, weather conditions, political developments, or supply and demand changes. Inform other traders, managers, or customers of market conditions, including volume, price, competition, or dynamics. Receive sales order tickets and inspect forms to determine accuracy of information. Review securities transactions to ensure conformance to regulations. Supervise support staff and ensure proper execution of contracts. Develop or maintain supplier or customer relationships. Analyze target companies or investment opportunities to inform investment decisions. Prepare financial reports, such as reviews of portfolio positions. Process paperwork for special orders, including margin or option purchases. Report deficiencies in account payments, securities deliveries, or documentation requirements to avoid rule violations. Reconcile account-related statements, such as quarterly or annual statements or confirmations. Write or sign sales order confirmation forms to record or approve security transactions. Identify or pursue investment strategies related to the green economy, including green hedge funds, renewable energy markets, or clean technology investment opportunities.
41-3041| Travel Agents|Collect payment for transportation and accommodations from customer. Converse with customer to determine destination, mode of transportation, travel dates, financial considerations, and accommodations required. Compute cost of travel and accommodations, using calculator, computer, carrier tariff books, and hotel rate books, or quote package tour's costs. Book transportation and hotel reservations, using computer terminal or telephone. Plan, describe, arrange, and sell itinerary tour packages and promotional travel incentives offered by various travel carriers. Provide customer with brochures and publications containing travel information, such as local customs, points of interest, or foreign country regulations. Print or request transportation carrier tickets, using computer printer system or system link to travel carrier.
41-4011| Sales Representatives, Wholesale and Manufacturing, Technical and Scientific Products|Negotiate prices or terms of sales or service agreements. Prepare and submit sales contracts for orders. Visit establishments to evaluate needs or to promote product or service sales. Maintain customer records, using automated systems. Answer customers' questions about products, prices, availability, or credit terms. Quote prices, credit terms, or other bid specifications. Contact new or existing customers to discuss how specific products or services can meet their needs. Emphasize product features based on analyses of customers' needs and on technical knowledge of product capabilities and limitations. Compute customer's installation or production costs and estimate savings from new services, products, or equipment. Select or assist customers in selecting products based on customer needs, product specifications, and applicable regulations. Prepare sales presentations or proposals to explain product specifications or applications. Complete expense reports, sales reports, or other paperwork. Verify that delivery schedules meet project deadlines. Identify prospective customers using business directories, leads from existing clients, participation in organizations, or trade show or conference attendance. Inform customers of estimated delivery schedules, service contracts, warranties, or other information pertaining to purchased products. Collaborate with colleagues to exchange information, such as selling strategies or marketing information. Provide customers with ongoing technical support. Advise customers on product usage to improve production. Study documentation or other information for new scientific or technical products. Stock or distribute resources, such as samples or promotional or educational materials. Attend sales or trade meetings or read related publications to obtain information about market conditions, business trends, environmental regulations, or industry developments. Sell service contracts for technical or scientific products. Demonstrate the operation or use of technical or scientific products. Provide feedback to product design teams so that products can be tailored to clients' needs. Arrange for installation and testing of products or machinery. Initiate sales campaigns to meet sales and production expectations. Obtain building blueprints or specifications for use by engineering departments in bid preparations. Verify accuracy of materials lists. Verify customer credit ratings. Appraise equipment to determine contract terms or trade-in values. Consult with engineers regarding technical problems with products. Sell technical and scientific products that are environmentally sound or designed for environmental remediation. Visit establishments, such as pharmacies, to determine product sales.
41-4012| Sales Representatives, Wholesale and Manufacturing, Except Technical and Scientific Products|Contact regular and prospective customers to demonstrate products, explain product features, and solicit orders. Recommend products to customers, based on customers' needs and interests. Answer customers' questions about products, prices, availability, product uses, and credit terms. Estimate or quote prices, credit or contract terms, warranties, and delivery dates. Consult with clients after sales or contract signings to resolve problems and to provide ongoing support. Provide customers with product samples and catalogs. Identify prospective customers by using business directories, following leads from existing clients, participating in organizations and clubs, and attending trade shows and conferences. Prepare drawings, estimates, and bids that meet specific customer needs. Monitor market conditions, product innovations, and competitors' products, prices, and sales. Perform administrative duties, such as preparing sales budgets and reports, keeping sales records, and filing expense account reports. Obtain credit information about prospective customers. Train customers' employees to operate and maintain new equipment. Prepare sales contracts and order forms. Negotiate details of contracts and payments. Forward orders to manufacturers. Negotiate with retail merchants to improve product exposure, such as shelf positioning and advertising. Plan, assemble, and stock product displays in retail stores, or make recommendations to retailers regarding product displays, promotional programs, and advertising. Check stock levels and reorder merchandise as necessary. Arrange and direct delivery and installation of products and equipment. Buy products from manufacturers or brokerage firms and distribute them to wholesale and retail clients.
41-9011| Demonstrators and Product Promoters|Demonstrate or explain products, methods, or services to persuade customers to purchase products or use services. Provide product samples, coupons, informational brochures, or other incentives to persuade people to buy products. Keep areas neat while working and return items to correct locations following demonstrations. Record and report demonstration-related information, such as the number of questions asked by the audience or the number of coupons distributed. Sell products being promoted and keep records of sales. Set up and arrange displays or demonstration areas to attract the attention of prospective customers. Suggest specific product purchases to meet customers' needs. Transport, assemble, and disassemble materials used in presentations. Identify interested and qualified customers to provide them with additional information. Practice demonstrations to ensure that they will run smoothly. Prepare or alter presentation contents to target specific audiences. Learn about competitors' products or consumers' interests or concerns to answer questions or provide more complete information. Work as part of a team of demonstrators to accommodate large crowds. Visit trade shows, stores, community organizations, or other venues to demonstrate products or services or to answer questions from potential customers. Train demonstrators to present a company's products or services. Instruct customers in alteration of products. Research or investigate products to be presented to prepare for demonstrations. Recommend product or service improvements to employers. Provide product information, using lectures, films, charts, or slide shows. Contact businesses or civic establishments to arrange to exhibit and sell merchandise. Wear costumes or sign boards and walk in public to promote merchandise, services, or events. Stock shelves with products. Develop lists of prospective clients from sources such as newspaper items, company records, local merchants, or customers.
41-9012| Models|Pose for artists and photographers. Gather information from agents concerning the pay, dates, times, provisions, and lengths of jobs. Follow strict routines of diet, sleep, and exercise to maintain appearance. Record rates of pay and durations of jobs on vouchers. Report job completions to agencies and obtain information about future appointments. Assemble and maintain portfolios, print composite cards, and travel to go-sees to obtain jobs. Work closely with photographers, fashion coordinators, directors, producers, stylists, make-up artists, other models, and clients to produce the desired looks, and to finish photo shoots on schedule. Apply makeup to face and style hair to enhance appearance, considering such factors as color, camera techniques, and facial features. Display clothing and merchandise in commercials, advertisements, or fashion shows. Promote products and services in television commercials, on film, or in videos. Make many quick changes backstage during fashion shows and yet maintain poised appearance before audiences. Pose as directed, or strike suitable interpretive poses for promoting and selling merchandise or fashions during appearances, filming, or photo sessions. Dress in sample or completed garments, and select accessories. Wear character costumes and impersonate characters portrayed to amuse children and adults. Stand, turn, and walk to demonstrate features of garments for observers at fashion shows, private showings, and retail establishments.
41-9021| Real Estate Brokers|Sell, for a fee, real estate owned by others. Obtain agreements from property owners to place properties for sale with real estate firms. Act as an intermediary in negotiations between buyers and sellers over property prices and settlement details and during the closing of sales. Generate lists of properties for sale, their locations, descriptions, and available financing options, using computers. Manage or operate real estate offices, handling associated business details. Compare a property with similar properties that have recently sold to determine its competitive market price. Maintain knowledge of real estate law, local economies, fair housing laws, types of available mortgages, financing options, and government programs. Monitor fulfillment of purchase contract terms to ensure that they are handled in a timely manner. Check work completed by loan officers, attorneys, or other professionals to ensure that it is performed properly. Rent properties or manage rental properties. Maintain awareness of current income tax regulations, local zoning, building and tax laws, and growth possibilities of the area where a property is located. Arrange for title searches of properties being sold. Appraise property values, assessing income potential when relevant. Supervise agents who handle real estate transactions. Arrange for financing of property purchases. Develop, sell, or lease property used for industry or manufacturing. Give buyers virtual tours of properties in which they are interested, using computers. Review property details to ensure that environmental regulations are met.
41-9022| Real Estate Sales Agents|Present purchase offers to sellers for consideration. Act as an intermediary in negotiations between buyers and sellers, generally representing one or the other. Compare a property with similar properties that have recently sold to determine its competitive market price. Advise clients on market conditions, prices, mortgages, legal requirements and related matters. Promote sales of properties through advertisements, open houses, and participation in multiple listing services. Accompany buyers during visits to and inspections of property, advising them on the suitability and value of the homes they are visiting. Prepare documents such as representation contracts, purchase agreements, closing statements, deeds and leases. Confer with escrow companies, lenders, home inspectors, and pest control operators to ensure that terms and conditions of purchase agreements are met before closing dates. Interview clients to determine what kinds of properties they are seeking. Coordinate property closings, overseeing signing of documents and disbursement of funds. Generate lists of properties that are compatible with buyers' needs and financial resources. Contact property owners and advertise services to solicit property sales listings. Arrange for title searches to determine whether clients have clear property titles. Display commercial, industrial, agricultural, and residential properties to clients and explain their features. Review property listings, trade journals, and relevant literature, and attend conventions, seminars, and staff and association meetings to remain knowledgeable about real estate markets. Coordinate appointments to show homes to prospective buyers. Answer clients' questions regarding construction work, financing, maintenance, repairs, and appraisals. Advise sellers on how to make homes more appealing to potential buyers. Investigate clients' financial and credit status to determine eligibility for financing. Develop networks of attorneys, mortgage lenders, and contractors to whom clients may be referred. Inspect condition of premises, and arrange for necessary maintenance or notify owners of maintenance needs. Conduct seminars and training sessions for sales agents to improve sales techniques. Evaluate mortgage options to help clients obtain financing at the best prevailing rates and terms. Arrange meetings between buyers and sellers when details of transactions need to be negotiated. Appraise properties to determine loan values.
41-9031| Sales Engineers|Collaborate with sales teams to understand customer requirements, to promote the sale of company products, and to provide sales support. Sell products requiring extensive technical expertise and support for installation and use, such as material handling equipment, numerical-control machinery, and computer systems. Plan and modify product configurations to meet customer needs. Confer with customers and engineers to assess equipment needs and to determine system requirements. Prepare and deliver technical presentations that explain products or services to customers and prospective customers. Arrange for demonstrations or trial installations of equipment. Create sales or service contracts for products or services. Develop, present, or respond to proposals for specific customer requirements, including request for proposal responses and industry-specific solutions. Visit prospective buyers at commercial, industrial, or other establishments to show samples or catalogs, and to inform them about product pricing, availability, and advantages. Research and identify potential customers for products or services. Provide technical and non-technical support and services to clients or other staff members regarding the use, operation, and maintenance of equipment. Recommend improved materials or machinery to customers, documenting how such changes will lower costs or increase production. Develop sales plans to introduce products in new markets. Diagnose problems with installed equipment. Provide information needed for the development of custom-made machinery. Document account activities, generate reports, and keep records of business transactions with customers and suppliers. Keep informed on industry news and trends, products, services, competitors, relevant information about legacy, existing, and emerging technologies, and the latest product-line developments. Maintain sales forecasting reports. Identify resale opportunities and support them to achieve sales plans. Secure and renew orders and arrange delivery. Write technical documentation for products.
41-9041| Telemarketers|Deliver prepared sales talks, reading from scripts that describe products or services, to persuade potential customers to purchase a product or service or to make a donation. Contact businesses or private individuals by telephone to solicit sales for goods or services, or to request donations for charitable causes. Explain products or services and prices, and answer questions from customers. Obtain customer information such as name, address, and payment method, and enter orders into computers. Record names, addresses, purchases, and reactions of prospects contacted. Adjust sales scripts to better target the needs and interests of specific individuals. Obtain names and telephone numbers of potential customers from sources such as telephone directories, magazine reply cards, and lists purchased from other organizations. Answer telephone calls from potential customers who have been solicited through advertisements. Telephone or write letters to respond to correspondence from customers or to follow up initial sales contacts. Maintain records of contacts, accounts, and orders. Schedule appointments for sales representatives to meet with prospective customers or for customers to attend sales presentations. Conduct client or market surveys to obtain information about potential customers.
41-9091| Door-to-Door Sales Workers, News and Street Vendors, and Related Workers|Deliver merchandise and collect payment. Write and record orders for merchandise or enter orders into computers. Explain products or services and prices and demonstrate use of products. Contact customers to persuade them to purchase merchandise or services. Arrange buying parties and solicit sponsorship of such parties to sell merchandise. Answer questions about product features and benefits. Circulate among potential customers or travel by foot, truck, automobile, or bicycle to deliver or sell merchandise or services. Develop prospect lists. Distribute product samples or literature that details products or services. Order or purchase supplies. Set up and display sample merchandise at parties or stands.
43-1011| First-Line Supervisors of Office and Administrative Support Workers|Supervise the work of office, administrative, or customer service employees to ensure adherence to quality standards, deadlines, and proper procedures, correcting errors or problems. Resolve customer complaints or answer customers' questions regarding policies and procedures. Provide employees with guidance in handling difficult or complex problems or in resolving escalated complaints or disputes. Review records or reports pertaining to activities such as production, payroll, or shipping to verify details, monitor work activities, or evaluate performance. Discuss job performance problems with employees to identify causes and issues and to work on resolving problems. Prepare and issue work schedules, deadlines, and duty assignments for office or administrative staff. Recruit, interview, and select employees. Interpret and communicate work procedures and company policies to staff. Evaluate employees' job performance and conformance to regulations and recommend appropriate personnel action. Train or instruct employees in job duties or company policies or arrange for training to be provided. Research, compile, and prepare reports, manuals, correspondence, or other information required by management or governmental agencies. Implement corporate or departmental policies, procedures, and service standards in conjunction with management. Compute figures such as balances, totals, or commissions. Coordinate activities with other supervisory personnel or with other work units or departments. Participate in the work of subordinates to facilitate productivity or to overcome difficult aspects of work. Make recommendations to management concerning such issues as staffing decisions or procedural changes. Develop or update procedures, policies, or standards. Maintain records pertaining to inventory, personnel, orders, supplies, or machine maintenance. Consult with managers or other personnel to resolve problems in areas such as equipment performance, output quality, or work schedules. Develop work schedules according to budgets and workloads. Analyze financial activities of establishments or departments and provide input into budget planning and preparation processes. Design, implement, or evaluate staff training and development programs, customer service initiatives, or performance measurement criteria. Keep informed of provisions of labor-management agreements and their effects on departmental operations. Discuss work problems or grievances with union representatives. Coordinate or perform activities associated with shipping, receiving, distribution, or transportation. Monitor inventory levels and requisition or purchase supplies as needed. Plan for or coordinate office services, such as equipment or supply acquisition or organization, disposal of assets, relocation, parking, maintenance, or security services.
43-2011| Switchboard Operators, Including Answering Service|Answer incoming calls, greeting callers, providing information, transferring calls or taking messages as necessary. Operate communication systems, such as telephone, switchboard, intercom, two-way radio, or public address. Page individuals to inform them of telephone calls, using paging or interoffice communication equipment. Relay or route written or verbal messages. Place telephone calls or arrange conference calls as instructed. Perform various data entry or word processing tasks, such as updating phone directories, typing or proofreading documents, or creating schedules. Process incoming or outgoing mail, packages, or deliveries. Perform administrative tasks, such as accepting orders, scheduling appointments or meeting rooms, or sending and receiving faxes. Record messages, suggesting rewording for clarity or conciseness. Monitor alarm systems to ensure that secure conditions are maintained. Monitor emergency and code alarms, make emergency announcements, or route emergency calls to the appropriate location. Greet visitors, log them in and out of the facility, assign them security badges, and contact employee escorts. Answer simple questions about clients' businesses, using reference files. Keep records of calls placed and charges incurred. Stamp messages with time and date and file them appropriately. Complete forms for sales orders. Contact security staff members when necessary, using radio-telephones. Perform various cash handling tasks, such as collecting payments, making bank deposits, or managing petty cash. Place orders, such as for equipment, supplies, or catering for meetings.
43-2021| Telephone Operators|Listen to customer requests, referring to alphabetical or geographical directories to answer questions and provide telephone information. Suggest and check alternate spellings, locations, or listing formats to customers lacking details or complete information. Offer special assistance to persons such as those who are unable to dial or who are in emergency situations. Observe signal lights on switchboards, and dial or press buttons to make connections. Operate telephone switchboards and systems to advance and complete connections, including those for local, long distance, pay telephone, mobile, person-to-person, and emergency calls. Provide assistance for customers with special billing requests. Calculate and quote charges for services such as long-distance connections. Monitor automated systems for placing collect calls and intervene for a callers needing assistance. Perform clerical duties such as typing, proofreading, and sorting mail. Consult charts to determine charges for pay-telephone calls, requesting coin deposits for calls as necessary. Interrupt busy lines if an emergency warrants. Provide relay service for hearing-impaired users. Promote company products, services, and savings plans when appropriate. Operate paging systems or other systems of bells or buzzers to notify recipients of incoming calls. Update directory information. Keep records of calls placed and received, and of related toll charges.
43-3011| Bill and Account Collectors|Arrange for debt repayment or establish repayment schedules, based on customers' financial situations. Locate and notify customers of delinquent accounts by mail, telephone, or personal visits to solicit payment. Advise customers of necessary actions and strategies for debt repayment. Persuade customers to pay amounts due on credit accounts, damage claims, or nonpayable checks, or to return merchandise. Confer with customers by telephone or in person to determine reasons for overdue payments and to review the terms of sales, service, or credit contracts. Locate and monitor overdue accounts, using computers and a variety of automated systems. Answer customer questions regarding problems with their accounts. Record information about financial status of customers and status of collection efforts. Trace delinquent customers to new addresses by inquiring at post offices, telephone companies, credit bureaus, or through the questioning of neighbors. Sort and file correspondence and perform miscellaneous clerical duties, such as answering correspondence and writing reports. Perform various administrative functions for assigned accounts, such as recording address changes and purging the records of deceased customers. Receive payments and post amounts paid to customer accounts. Contact insurance companies to check on status of claims payments and write appeal letters for denial on claims. Notify credit departments, order merchandise repossession or service disconnection, and turn over account records to attorneys when customers fail to respond to collection attempts. Negotiate credit extensions when necessary.
43-3021| Billing and Posting Clerks|Post stop-payment notices to prevent payment of protested checks. Verify signatures and required information on checks. Retrieve checks returned to customers in error, adjusting customer accounts and answering inquiries about errors as necessary. Route statements for mailing or over-the-counter delivery to customers. Monitor equipment to ensure proper operation. Fix minor problems, such as equipment jams, and notify repair personnel of major equipment problems. Weigh envelopes containing statements to determine correct postage and affix postage, using stamps or metering equipment. Compare previously prepared bank statements with canceled checks and reconcile discrepancies. Take orders for imprinted checks. Encode and cancel checks, using bank machines. Load machines with statements, cancelled checks, or envelopes to prepare statements for distribution to customers or stuff envelopes by hand. Maintain files of canceled checks and customers' signatures.Verify accuracy of billing data and revise any errors. Prepare itemized statements, bills, or invoices and record amounts due for items purchased or services rendered. Perform bookkeeping work, including posting data or keeping other records concerning costs of goods or services or the shipment of goods. Operate typing, adding, calculating, or billing machines. Answer mail or telephone inquiries regarding rates, routing, or procedures. Resolve discrepancies in accounting records. Type billing documents, shipping labels, credit memorandums, or credit forms, using typewriters or computers. Contact customers to obtain or relay account information. Review documents such as purchase orders, sales tickets, charge slips, or hospital records to compute fees or charges due. Keep records of invoices and support documents. Consult sources such as rate books, manuals, or insurance company representatives to determine specific charges or information such as rules, regulations, or government tax and tariff information. Update manuals when rates, rules, or regulations are amended. Track accumulated hours and dollar amounts charged to each client job to calculate client fees for professional services, such as legal or accounting services. Compute credit terms, discounts, shipment charges, or rates for goods or services to complete billing documents. Review compiled data on operating costs and revenues to set rates. Compile reports of cost factors, such as labor, production, storage, or equipment. Estimate market value of products or services.
43-3031| Bookkeeping, Accounting, and Auditing Clerks|Operate computers programmed with accounting software to record, store, and analyze information. Check figures, postings, and documents for correct entry, mathematical accuracy, and proper codes. Classify, record, and summarize numerical and financial data to compile and keep financial records, using journals and ledgers or computers. Debit, credit, and total accounts on computer spreadsheets and databases, using specialized accounting software. Operate 10-key calculators, typewriters, and copy machines to perform calculations and produce documents. Receive, record, and bank cash, checks, and vouchers. Comply with federal, state, and company policies, procedures, and regulations. Compile statistical, financial, accounting, or auditing reports and tables pertaining to such matters as cash receipts, expenditures, accounts payable and receivable, and profits and losses. Code documents according to company procedures. Reconcile or note and report discrepancies found in records. Access computerized financial information to answer general questions as well as those related to specific accounts. Match order forms with invoices, and record the necessary information. Perform general office duties, such as filing, answering telephones, and handling routine correspondence. Perform personal bookkeeping services. Prepare bank deposits by compiling data from cashiers, verifying and balancing receipts, and sending cash, checks, or other forms of payment to banks. Prepare trial balances of books. Calculate, prepare, and issue bills, invoices, account statements, and other financial statements according to established procedures. Calculate and prepare checks for utilities, taxes, and other payments. Compute deductions for income and social security taxes. Prepare and process payroll information. Compare computer printouts to manually maintained journals to determine if they match. Reconcile records of bank transactions. Transfer details from separate journals to general ledgers or data processing sheets. Complete and submit tax forms and returns, workers' compensation forms, pension contribution forms, and other government documents. Prepare purchase orders and expense reports. Monitor status of loans and accounts to ensure that payments are up to date. Perform financial calculations, such as amounts due, interest charges, balances, discounts, equity, and principal. Calculate costs of materials, overhead, and other expenses, based on estimates, quotations and price lists. Compile budget data and documents, based on estimated revenues and expenses and previous budgets. Maintain inventory records.
43-3041| Gaming Cage Workers|Follow all gaming regulations. Convert gaming checks, coupons, tokens, or coins to currency for gaming patrons. Maintain cage security. Maintain confidentiality of customers' transactions. Count funds and reconcile daily summaries of transactions to balance books. Cash checks and process credit card advances for patrons. Prepare bank deposits, balancing assigned funds as necessary. Determine cash requirements for windows and order all necessary currency, coins, or chips. Verify accuracy of reports, such as authorization forms, transaction reconciliations, or exchange summary reports. Provide customers with information about casino operations. Prepare reports, including assignment of company funds or recording of department revenues. Supply currency, coins, chips, or gaming checks to other departments as needed. Perform removal and rotation of cash, coin, or chip inventories as necessary. Provide assistance in the training and orientation of new cashiers. Record casino exchange transactions, using cash registers. Sell gambling chips, tokens, or tickets to patrons or to other workers for resale to patrons. Establish new computer accounts.
43-3051| Payroll and Timekeeping Clerks|Review time sheets, work charts, wage computation, and other information to detect and reconcile payroll discrepancies. Process paperwork for new employees and enter employee information into the payroll system. Verify attendance, hours worked, and pay adjustments, and post information onto designated records. Compute wages and deductions, and enter data into computers. Record employee information, such as exemptions, transfers, and resignations, to maintain and update payroll records. Process and issue employee paychecks and statements of earnings and deductions. Keep track of leave time, such as vacation, personal, and sick leave, for employees. Compile employee time, production, and payroll data from time sheets and other records. Distribute and collect timecards each pay period. Issue and record adjustments to pay related to previous errors or retroactive increases. Provide information to employees and managers on payroll matters, tax issues, benefit plans, and collective agreement provisions. Keep informed about changes in tax and deduction laws that apply to the payroll process. Compile statistical reports, statements, and summaries related to pay and benefits accounts, and submit them to appropriate departments. Conduct verifications of employment. Complete time sheets showing employees' arrival and departure times. Prepare and balance period-end reports, and reconcile issued payrolls to bank statements. Complete, verify, and process forms and documentation for administration of benefits such as pension plans, and unemployment and medical insurance. Post relevant work hours to client files to bill clients properly. Coordinate special programs, such as United Way campaigns, that involve payroll deductions.
43-3061| Procurement Clerks|Perform buying duties when necessary. Prepare purchase orders and send copies to suppliers and to departments originating requests. Compare suppliers' bills with bids and purchase orders to verify accuracy. Prepare, maintain, and review purchasing files, reports and price lists. Check shipments when they arrive to ensure that orders have been filled correctly and that goods meet specifications. Compare prices, specifications, and delivery dates to determine the best bid among potential suppliers. Review requisition orders to verify accuracy, terminology, and specifications. Determine if inventory quantities are sufficient for needs, ordering more materials when necessary. Calculate costs of orders, and charge or forward invoices to appropriate accounts. Maintain knowledge of all organizational and governmental rules affecting purchases, and provide information about these rules to organization staff members and to vendors. Contact suppliers to schedule or expedite deliveries and to resolve shortages, missed or late deliveries, and other problems. Track the status of requisitions, contracts, and orders. Respond to customer and supplier inquiries about order status, changes, or cancellations. Locate suppliers, using sources such as catalogs and the internet, and interview them to gather information about products to be ordered. Train and supervise subordinates and other staff. Approve and pay bills. Monitor contractor performance, recommending contract modifications when necessary. Prepare invitation-of-bid forms, and mail forms to supplier firms or distribute forms for public posting. Monitor in-house inventory movement and complete inventory transfer forms for bookkeeping purposes.
43-3071| Tellers|Cash checks and pay out money after verifying that signatures are correct, that written and numerical amounts agree, and that accounts have sufficient funds. Receive checks and cash for deposit, verify amounts, and check accuracy of deposit slips. Enter customers' transactions into computers to record transactions and issue computer-generated receipts. Balance currency, coin, and checks in cash drawers at ends of shifts and calculate daily transactions, using computers, calculators, or adding machines. Examine checks for endorsements and to verify other information, such as dates, bank names, identification of the persons receiving payments, and the legality of the documents. Count currency, coins, and checks received, by hand or using currency-counting machine, to prepare them for deposit or shipment to branch banks or the Federal Reserve Bank. Order a supply of cash to meet daily needs. Receive and count daily inventories of cash, drafts, and travelers' checks. Prepare and verify cashier's checks. Sort and file deposit slips and checks. Carry out special services for customers, such as ordering bank cards and checks. Process transactions, such as term deposits, retirement savings plan contributions, automated teller transactions, night deposits, and mail deposits. Identify transaction mistakes when debits and credits do not balance. Arrange monies received in cash boxes and coin dispensers according to denomination. Resolve problems or discrepancies concerning customers' accounts. Receive mortgage, loan, or public utility bill payments, verifying payment dates and amounts due. Explain, promote, or sell products or services, such as travelers' checks, savings bonds, money orders, and cashier's checks, using computerized information about customers to tailor recommendations. Obtain and process information required for the provision of services, such as opening accounts, savings plans, and purchasing bonds. Process and maintain records of customer loans. Count, verify, and post armored car deposits. Monitor bank vaults to ensure cash balances are correct. Compose, type, and mail customer statements and other correspondence related to issues such as discrepancies and outstanding unpaid items. Perform clerical tasks, such as typing, filing, and microfilm photography. Issue checks to bond owners in settlement of transactions. Compute financial fees, interest, and service charges. Quote unit exchange rates, following daily international rate sheets or computer displays. Prepare work schedules for staff. Inform customers about foreign currency regulations and compute transaction fees for currency exchanges.
43-4011| Brokerage Clerks|Correspond with customers and confer with coworkers to answer inquiries, discuss market fluctuations, or resolve account problems. Document security transactions, such as purchases, sales, conversions, redemptions, or payments, using computers, accounting ledgers, or certificate records. File, type, or operate standard office machines. Perform clerical tasks, such as answering phones or distributing mail. Prepare forms, such as receipts, withdrawal orders, transmittal papers, or transfer confirmations, based on transaction requests from stockholders. Schedule and coordinate transfer and delivery of security certificates between companies, departments, and customers. Monitor daily stock prices and compute fluctuations to determine the need for additional collateral to secure loans. Verify ownership and transaction information and dividend distribution instructions to ensure conformance with governmental regulations, using stock records and reports. Compute total holdings, dividends, interest, transfer taxes, brokerage fees, or commissions and allocate appropriate payments to customers. Prepare reports summarizing daily transactions and earnings for individual customer accounts.
43-4021| Correspondence Clerks|Prepare documents and correspondence such as damage claims, credit and billing inquiries, invoices, and service complaints. Compile data from records to prepare periodic reports. Present clear and concise explanations of governing rules and regulations. Read incoming correspondence to ascertain nature of writers' concerns and to determine disposition of correspondence. Type acknowledgment letters to persons sending correspondence. Review correspondence for format and typographical accuracy, assemble the information into a prescribed form with the correct number of copies, and submit it to an authorized official for signature. Maintain files and control records to show correspondence activities. Gather records pertinent to specific problems, review them for completeness and accuracy, and attach records to correspondence as necessary. Complete form letters in response to requests or problems identified by correspondence. Route correspondence to other departments for reply. Compose letters in reply to correspondence concerning such items as requests for merchandise, damage claims, credit information requests, delinquent accounts, incorrect billing, or unsatisfactory service. Ensure that money collected is properly recorded and secured. Respond to internal and external requests for the release of information contained in medical records, copying medical records, and selective extracts in accordance with laws and regulations. Compute costs of records furnished to requesters, and write letters to obtain payment. Compose correspondence requesting medical information and records.
43-4031| Court, Municipal, and License Clerks|Prepare and issue orders of the court, such as probation orders, release documentation, sentencing information, or summonses. Prepare dockets or calendars of cases to be called, using typewriters or computers. Record case dispositions, court orders, or arrangements made for payment of court fees. Prepare documents recording the outcomes of court proceedings. Examine legal documents submitted to courts for adherence to laws or court procedures. Perform administrative tasks, such as answering telephone calls, filing court documents, or maintaining office supplies or equipment. Search files and contact witnesses, attorneys, or litigants to obtain information for the court. Answer inquiries from the general public regarding judicial procedures, court appearances, trial dates, adjournments, outstanding warrants, summonses, subpoenas, witness fees, or payment of fines. Instruct parties about timing of court appearances. Explain procedures or forms to parties in cases or to the general public. Record court proceedings, using recording equipment, or record minutes of court proceedings, using stenotype machines or shorthand. Follow procedures to secure courtrooms or exhibits, such as money, drugs, or weapons. Read charges and related information to the court and, if necessary, record defendants' pleas. Swear in jury members, interpreters, witnesses, or defendants. Conduct roll calls and poll jurors. Collect court fees or fines and record amounts collected. Prepare and mark applicable court exhibits or evidence. Amend indictments when necessary and endorse indictments with pertinent information. Meet with judges, lawyers, parole officers, police, or social agency officials to coordinate the functions of the court. Prepare staff schedules. Direct support staff in handling of paperwork processed by clerks' offices. Prepare courtrooms with paper, pens, water, easels, or electronic equipment and ensure that recording equipment is working. Open courts, calling them to order, and announcing judges.Record and edit the minutes of meetings and distribute to appropriate officials or staff members. Issue public notification of all official activities or meetings. Record and maintain all vital and fiscal records and accounts. Prepare meeting agendas or packets of related information. Prepare ordinances, resolutions, or proclamations so that they can be executed, recorded, archived, or distributed. Maintain and update documents, such as municipal codes or city charters. Plan and direct the maintenance, filing, safekeeping, and computerization of all municipal documents. Perform budgeting duties, such as assisting in budget preparation, expenditure review, or budget administration. Perform general office duties, such as taking or transcribing dictation, typing or proofreading correspondence, distributing or filing official forms, or scheduling appointments. Respond to requests for information from the public, other municipalities, state officials, or state and federal legislative offices. Coordinate or maintain office tracking systems for correspondence or follow-up actions. Issue various permits and licenses, such as marriage, fishing, hunting, or dog licenses, and collect appropriate fees. Research information in the municipal archives upon request of public officials or private citizens. Perform contract administration duties, assisting with bid openings or the awarding of contracts. Collaborate with other staff to assist in the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies, or priorities. Participate in the administration of municipal elections, such as preparation or distribution of ballots, appointment or training of election officers, or tabulation or certification of results. Provide assistance to persons with disabilities in reaching less accessible areas of municipal facilities. Process claims against the municipality, maintaining files and log of claims, and coordinate claim response and handling with municipal claims administrators. Develop or conduct orientation programs for candidates for political office. Serve as a notary of the public. Provide assistance with events, such as police department auctions of abandoned automobiles. Prepare reports on civic needs.Evaluate information on applications to verify completeness and accuracy and to determine whether applicants are qualified to obtain desired licenses. Collect prescribed fees for licenses. Verify the authenticity of documents, such as foreign identification or immigration documents. Question applicants to obtain required information, such as name, address, or age, and record data on prescribed forms. Update operational records or licensing information, using computer terminals. Answer questions or provide advice to the public regarding licensing policies, procedures, or regulations. Maintain records of applications made or licensing fees collected. Perform routine data entry or other office support activities, including creating, sorting, photocopying, distributing, or filing documents. Code information on license applications for entry into computers. Inform customers by mail or telephone of additional steps they need to take to obtain licenses. Perform record checks on past or current licensees, as required by investigations. Train other workers or coordinate their work, as necessary. Prepare bank deposits and take deposits to banks. Assemble photographs with printed license information to produce completed documents. Operate specialized photographic equipment to obtain photographs for drivers' licenses or photo identification cards. Instruct customers in the completion of driver's license application forms or other forms, such as voter registration cards or organ donor forms. Conduct and score oral, visual, written, or performance tests to determine applicant qualifications and notify applicants of their scores. Prepare lists of overdue accounts, license suspensions, or issuances. Stock counters with adequate supplies of forms, film, licenses, or other required materials. Respond to correspondence from insurance companies regarding the licensure of agents, brokers, or adjusters. Mail driver's licenses to out-of-county or out-of-state applicants.
43-4041| Credit Authorizers, Checkers, and Clerks|Keep records of customers' charges and payments. Evaluate customers' computerized credit records and payment histories to decide whether to approve new credit, based on predetermined standards. File sales slips in customers' ledgers for billing purposes. Receive charge slips or credit applications by mail, or receive information from salespeople or merchants by telephone. Mail charge statements to customers. Prepare credit cards or charge account plates.Compile and analyze credit information gathered by investigation. Obtain information about potential creditors from banks, credit bureaus, and other credit services, and provide reciprocal information if requested. Interview credit applicants by telephone or in person to obtain personal and financial data needed to complete credit report. Prepare reports of findings and recommendations, using typewriters or computers. Contact former employers and other acquaintances to verify applicants' references, employment, health history, and social behavior. Examine city directories and public records to verify residence property ownership, bankruptcies, liens, arrest record, or unpaid taxes of applicants. Relay credit report information to subscribers by mail or by telephone.
43-4051| Customer Service Representatives|Confer with customers by telephone or in person to provide information about products or services, take or enter orders, cancel accounts, or obtain details of complaints. Check to ensure that appropriate changes were made to resolve customers' problems. Keep records of customer interactions or transactions, recording details of inquiries, complaints, or comments, as well as actions taken. Resolve customers' service or billing complaints by performing activities such as exchanging merchandise, refunding money, or adjusting bills. Complete contract forms, prepare change of address records, or issue service discontinuance orders, using computers. Refer unresolved customer grievances to designated departments for further investigation. Determine charges for services requested, collect deposits or payments, or arrange for billing. Contact customers to respond to inquiries or to notify them of claim investigation results or any planned adjustments. Solicit sales of new or additional services or products. Order tests that could determine the causes of product malfunctions. Obtain and examine all relevant information to assess validity of complaints and to determine possible causes, such as extreme weather conditions that could increase utility bills. Review claims adjustments with dealers, examining parts claimed to be defective, and approving or disapproving dealers' claims. Review insurance policy terms to determine whether a particular loss is covered by insurance. Compare disputed merchandise with original requisitions and information from invoices and prepare invoices for returned goods. Recommend improvements in products, packaging, shipping, service, or billing methods and procedures to prevent future problems.
43-4061| Eligibility Interviewers, Government Programs|Answer applicants' questions about benefits and claim procedures. Interview benefits recipients at specified intervals to certify their eligibility for continuing benefits. Interpret and explain information such as eligibility requirements, application details, payment methods, and applicants' legal rights. Initiate procedures to grant, modify, deny, or terminate assistance, or refer applicants to other agencies for assistance. Compile, record, and evaluate personal and financial data to verify completeness and accuracy, and to determine eligibility status. Interview and investigate applicants for public assistance to gather information pertinent to their applications. Check with employers or other references to verify answers and obtain further information. Keep records of assigned cases, and prepare required reports. Schedule benefits claimants for adjudication interviews to address questions of eligibility. Prepare applications and forms for applicants for such purposes as school enrollment, employment, and medical services. Refer applicants to job openings or to interviews with other staff, in accordance with administrative guidelines or office procedures. Provide social workers with pertinent information gathered during applicant interviews. Compute and authorize amounts of assistance for programs such as grants, monetary payments, and food stamps. Monitor the payments of benefits throughout the duration of a claim. Provide applicants with assistance in completing application forms such as those for job referrals or unemployment compensation claims. Investigate claimants for the possibility of fraud or abuse. Conduct annual, interim, and special housing reviews and home visits to ensure conformance to regulations.
43-4071| File Clerks|Scan or read incoming materials to determine how and where they should be classified or filed. Input data, such as file numbers, new or updated information, or document information codes into computer systems to support document and information retrieval. Perform general office activities, such as typing, answering telephones, operating office machines, processing mail, or securing confidential materials. Sort or classify information according to guidelines, such as content, purpose, user criteria, or chronological, alphabetical, or numerical order. Answer questions about records or files. Keep records of materials filed or removed, using logbooks or computers and generate computerized reports. Add new material to file records or create new records as necessary. Gather materials to be filed from departments or employees. Find, retrieve, and make copies of information from files in response to requests and deliver information to authorized users. Track materials removed from files to ensure that borrowed files are returned. Place materials into storage receptacles, such as file cabinets, boxes, bins, or drawers, according to classification and identification information. Eliminate outdated or unnecessary materials, destroying them or transferring them to inactive storage, according to file maintenance guidelines or legal requirements. Perform periodic inspections of materials or files to ensure correct placement, legibility, or proper condition. Modify or improve filing systems or implement new filing systems. Design forms related to filing systems. Complete general financial activities, such as processing accounts payable, reviewing invoices, collecting cash payments, or issuing receipts. Operate mechanized files that rotate to bring needed records to a particular location. Assign and record or stamp identification numbers or codes to index materials for filing. Retrieve documents stored in microfilm or microfiche and place them in viewers for reading.
43-4081| Hotel, Motel, and Resort Desk Clerks|Greet, register, and assign rooms to guests of hotels or motels. Verify customers' credit, and establish how the customer will pay for the accommodation. Contact housekeeping or maintenance staff when guests report problems. Make and confirm reservations. Issue room keys and escort instructions to bellhops. Keep records of room availability and guests' accounts, manually or using computers. Perform bookkeeping activities, such as balancing accounts and conducting nightly audits. Post charges, such as those for rooms, food, liquor, or telephone calls, to ledgers, manually or by using computers. Compute bills, collect payments, and make change for guests. Record guest comments or complaints, referring customers to managers as necessary. Review accounts and charges with guests during the check out process. Transmit and receive messages, using telephones or telephone switchboards. Advise housekeeping staff when rooms have been vacated and are ready for cleaning. Answer inquiries pertaining to hotel services, guest registration, and travel directions, or make recommendations regarding shopping, dining, or entertainment. Deposit guests' valuables in hotel safes or safe-deposit boxes. Clean and maintain lobby and common areas, such as restocking supplies and watering plants. Arrange tours, taxis, or restaurant reservations for customers. Prepare for basic food service, such as setting up continental breakfast or coffee and tea supplies. Plan, schedule or supervise the work of other employees. Date-stamp, sort, and rack incoming mail and messages.
43-4111| Interviewers, Except Eligibility and Loan|Ask questions in accordance with instructions to obtain various specified information, such as person's name, address, age, religious preference, or state of residency. Contact individuals to be interviewed at home, place of business, or field location, by telephone, mail, or in person. Compile, record, and code results or data from interview or survey, using computer or specified form. Review data obtained from interview for completeness and accuracy. Explain survey objectives and procedures to interviewees and interpret survey questions to help interviewees' comprehension. Identify and report problems in obtaining valid data. Identify and resolve inconsistencies in interviewees' responses by means of appropriate questioning or explanation. Meet with supervisor daily to submit completed assignments and discuss progress. Ensure payment for services by verifying benefits with the person's insurance provider or working out financing options. Assist individuals in filling out applications or questionnaires. Supervise or train other staff members. Perform office duties, such as telemarketing or customer service inquiries, maintaining staff records, billing patients, or receiving payments. Perform patient services, such as answering the telephone or assisting patients with financial or medical questions. Locate and list addresses and households. Collect and analyze data, such as studying old records, tallying the number of outpatients entering each day or week, or participating in federal, state, or local population surveys as a Census Enumerator. Prepare reports to provide answers in response to specific problems.
43-4121| Library Assistants, Clerical|Instruct patrons on how to use reference sources, card catalogs, and automated information systems. Open and close library during specified hours and secure library equipment, such as computers and audio-visual (AV) equipment. Locate library materials for patrons, including books, periodicals, tape cassettes, Braille volumes, and pictures. Answer routine inquiries and refer patrons in need of professional assistance to librarians. Maintain records of items received, stored, issued, and returned and file catalog cards according to system used. Perform clerical activities, such as answering phones, sorting mail, filing, typing, word processing, and photocopying and mailing out material. Process new materials including books, audio-visual materials, and computer software. Provide assistance to librarians in the maintenance of collections of books, periodicals, magazines, newspapers, and audio-visual and other materials. Take action to deal with disruptive or problem patrons. Sort books, publications, and other items according to established procedure and return them to shelves, files, or other designated storage areas. Schedule, supervise, and train clerical workers, volunteers, student assistants, and other library employees. Maintain library equipment, such as photocopiers, scanners, and computers, and instruct patrons in proper use of such equipment. Operate small branch libraries, under the direction of off-site librarian supervisors. Enter and update patrons' records on computers. Manage reserve materials by placing items on reserve for library patrons, checking items in and out of library, and removing out-dated items. Register new patrons and issue borrower identification cards that permit patrons to borrow books and other materials. Lend, reserve, and collect books, periodicals, videotapes, and other materials at circulation desks and process materials for inter-library loans. Send out notices and accept fine payments for lost or overdue books. Perform accounting and bookkeeping activities, such as invoicing, maintaining financial records, budgeting, and handling cash. Prepare, store, and retrieve classification and catalog information, lecture notes, or other information related to stored documents, using computers. Select substitute titles when requested materials are unavailable, following criteria such as age, education, and interests. Inspect returned books for condition and due-date status and compute any applicable fines. Repair books using mending tape, paste, and brushes or prepare books to be sent to a bindery for repair. Classify and catalog items according to content and purpose. Place books in mailing containers, affix address labels, and secure containers with straps for mailing to blind library patrons. Review records, such as microfilm and issue cards, to identify titles of overdue materials and delinquent borrowers. Acquire books, pamphlets, periodicals, audio-visual materials, and other library supplies by checking prices, figuring costs, and preparing appropriate order forms and facilitating the ordering process by providing such information to others. Deliver and retrieve items to and from departments by hand or using push carts. Prepare library statistics reports.
43-4131| Loan Interviewers and Clerks|Verify and examine information and accuracy of loan application and closing documents. Interview loan applicants to obtain personal and financial data and to assist in completing applications. Assemble and compile documents for loan closings, such as title abstracts, insurance forms, loan forms, and tax receipts. Answer questions and advise customers regarding loans and transactions. Contact customers by mail, telephone, or in person concerning acceptance or rejection of applications. Record applications for loan and credit, loan information, and disbursements of funds, using computers. Prepare and type loan applications, closing documents, legal documents, letters, forms, government notices, and checks, using computers. Present loan and repayment schedules to customers. Calculate, review, and correct errors on interest, principal, payment, and closing costs, using computers or calculators. Check value of customer collateral to be held as loan security. Contact credit bureaus, employers, and other sources to check applicants' credit and personal references. File and maintain loan records. Schedule and conduct closings of mortgage transactions. Accept payment on accounts. Submit loan applications with recommendation for underwriting approval. Order property insurance or mortgage insurance policies to ensure protection against loss on mortgaged property. Review customer accounts to determine whether payments are made on time and that other loan terms are being followed. Establish credit limits and grant extensions of credit on overdue accounts.
43-4141| New Accounts Clerks|Answer customers' questions, and explain available services such as deposit accounts, bonds, and securities. Compile information about new accounts, enter account information into computers, and file related forms or other documents. Inform customers of procedures for applying for services such as ATM cards, direct deposit of checks, and certificates of deposit. Perform teller duties as required. Refer customers to appropriate bank personnel to meet their financial needs. Interview customers to obtain information needed for opening accounts or renting safe-deposit boxes. Collect and record customer deposits and fees, and issue receipts using computers. Investigate and correct errors upon customers' request, according to customer and bank records. Execute wire transfers of funds. Perform foreign currency transactions and sell traveler's checks. Process loan applications. Obtain credit records from reporting agencies. Issue initial and replacement safe-deposit keys to customers, and admit customers to vaults. Duplicate records for distribution to branch offices. Schedule repairs for locks on safe-deposit boxes.
43-4151| Order Clerks|Obtain customers' names, addresses, and billing information, product numbers, and specifications of items to be purchased, and enter this information on order forms. Prepare invoices, shipping documents, and contracts. Inform customers by mail or telephone of order information, such as unit prices, shipping dates, and any anticipated delays. Receive and respond to customer complaints. Verify customer and order information for correctness, checking it against previously obtained information as necessary. Direct specified departments or units to prepare and ship orders to designated locations. Check inventory records to determine availability of requested merchandise. Review orders for completeness according to reporting procedures and forward incomplete orders for further processing. Attempt to sell additional merchandise or services to prospective or current customers by telephone or through visits. File copies of orders received, or post orders on records. Compute total charges for merchandise or services and shipping charges. Confer with production, sales, shipping, warehouse, or common carrier personnel to expedite or trace shipments. Recommend merchandise or services that will meet customers' needs. Adjust inventory records to reflect product movement. Collect payment for merchandise, record transactions, and send items such as checks or money orders for further processing. Inspect outgoing work for compliance with customers' specifications. Notify departments when supplies of specific items are low, or when orders would deplete available supplies. Recommend type of packing or labeling needed on order. Calculate and compile order-related statistics, and prepare reports for management.
43-4161| Human Resources Assistants, Except Payroll and Timekeeping|Process, verify, and maintain personnel related documentation, including staffing, recruitment, training, grievances, performance evaluations, classifications, and employee leaves of absence. Explain company personnel policies, benefits, and procedures to employees or job applicants. Record data for each employee, including such information as addresses, weekly earnings, absences, amount of sales or production, supervisory reports on performance, and dates of and reasons for terminations. Gather personnel records from other departments or employees. Examine employee files to answer inquiries and provide information for personnel actions. Answer questions regarding examinations, eligibility, salaries, benefits, and other pertinent information. Compile and prepare reports and documents pertaining to personnel activities. Request information from law enforcement officials, previous employers, and other references to determine applicants' employment acceptability. Process and review employment applications to evaluate qualifications or eligibility of applicants. Arrange for advertising or posting of job vacancies and notify eligible workers of position availability. Provide assistance in administering employee benefit programs and worker's compensation plans. Select applicants meeting specified job requirements and refer them to hiring personnel. Interview job applicants to obtain and verify information used to screen and evaluate them. Inform job applicants of their acceptance or rejection of employment. Search employee files to obtain information for authorized persons and organizations, such as credit bureaus and finance companies. Administer and score applicant and employee aptitude, personality, and interest assessment instruments. Prepare badges, passes, and identification cards, and perform other security-related duties. Arrange for in-house and external training activities.
43-4171| Receptionists and Information Clerks|Operate telephone switchboard to answer, screen, or forward calls, providing information, taking messages, or scheduling appointments. Greet persons entering establishment, determine nature and purpose of visit, and direct or escort them to specific destinations. Schedule appointments and maintain and update appointment calendars. Hear and resolve complaints from customers or the public. File and maintain records. Receive payment and record receipts for services. Perform administrative support tasks, such as proofreading, transcribing handwritten information, or operating calculators or computers to work with pay records, invoices, balance sheets, or other documents. Transmit information or documents to customers, using computer, mail, or facsimile machine. Analyze data to determine answers to questions from customers or members of the public. Collect, sort, distribute, or prepare mail, messages, or courier deliveries. Provide information about establishment, such as location of departments or offices, employees within the organization, or services provided. Calculate and quote rates for tours, stocks, insurance policies, or other products or services. Process and prepare memos, correspondence, travel vouchers, or other documents. Keep a current record of staff members' whereabouts and availability. Take orders for merchandise or materials and send them to the proper departments to be filled. Perform duties, such as taking care of plants or straightening magazines to maintain lobby or reception area. Schedule space or equipment for special programs and prepare lists of participants. Enroll individuals to participate in programs and notify them of their acceptance.
43-4181| Reservation and Transportation Ticket Agents and Travel Clerks|Examine passenger documentation to determine destinations and to assign boarding passes. Trace lost, delayed, or misdirected baggage for customers. Check baggage and cargo and direct passengers to designated locations for loading. Provide boarding or disembarking assistance to passengers needing special assistance. Confer with customers to determine their service requirements and travel preferences. Announce arrival and departure information, using public address systems. Determine whether space is available on travel dates requested by customers, assigning requested spaces when available. Assemble and issue required documentation, such as tickets, travel insurance policies, and itineraries. Maintain computerized inventories of available passenger space and provide information on space reserved or available. Inform clients of essential travel information, such as travel times, transportation connections, and medical and visa requirements. Answer inquiries regarding information such as schedules, accommodations, procedures, and policies. Plan routes, itineraries, and accommodation details, and compute fares and fees, using schedules, rate books, and computers. Make and confirm reservations for transportation and accommodations, using telephones, faxes, mail, and computers. Keep information facilities clean during operation. Provide clients with assistance in preparing required travel documents and forms. Prepare customer invoices and accept payment. Open or close information facilities. Provide customers with travel suggestions and information sources, such as guides, directories, brochures, and maps. Contact customers or travel agents to advise them of travel conveyance changes or to confirm reservations. Promote particular destinations, tour packages, and other travel services.
43-5011| Cargo and Freight Agents|Advise clients on transportation and payment methods. Track delivery progress of shipments. Notify consignees, passengers, or customers of freight or baggage arrival and arrange for delivery. Determine method of shipment and prepare bills of lading, invoices, and other shipping documents. Estimate freight or postal rates and record shipment costs and weights. Keep records of all goods shipped, received, and stored. Enter shipping information into a computer by hand or by a hand-held scanner that reads bar codes on goods. Check import or export documentation to determine cargo contents and use tariff coding system to classify goods according to fee or tariff group. Prepare manifests showing numbers of airplane passengers and baggage, mail, and freight weights, transmitting data to destinations. Negotiate and arrange transport of goods with shipping or freight companies. Install straps, braces, and padding to loads to prevent shifting or damage during shipment. Arrange insurance coverage for goods. Direct or participate in cargo loading to ensure completeness of load and even distribution of weight. Coordinate and supervise activities of workers engaged in packing and shipping merchandise. Route received goods to first available flight or to appropriate storage areas or departments, using forklifts, hand trucks, or other equipment. Direct delivery trucks to shipping doors or designated marshaling areas and help load and unload goods safely. Open cargo containers and unwrap contents, using steel cutters, crowbars, or other hand tools. Contact vendors or claims adjustment departments to resolve shipment problems or contact service depots to arrange for repairs. Retrieve stored items and trace lost shipments as necessary. Attach address labels, identification codes, and shipping instructions to containers. Inspect and count items received and check them against invoices or other documents, recording shortages and rejecting damaged goods.
43-5021| Couriers and Messengers|Walk, ride bicycles, drive vehicles, or use public conveyances to reach destinations to deliver messages or materials. Load vehicles with listed goods, ensuring goods are loaded correctly and taking precautions with hazardous goods. Unload and sort items collected along delivery routes. Receive messages or materials to be delivered, and information on recipients, such as names, addresses, telephone numbers, and delivery instructions, communicated via telephone, two-way radio, or in person. Plan and follow the most efficient routes for delivering goods. Deliver messages and items, such as newspapers, documents, and packages, between establishment departments, and to other establishments and private homes. Sort items to be delivered according to the delivery route. Obtain signatures and payments, or arrange for recipients to make payments. Record information, such as items received and delivered and recipients' responses to messages. Check with home offices after completed deliveries to confirm deliveries and collections and to receive instructions for other deliveries. Perform routine maintenance on delivery vehicles, such as monitoring fluid levels and replenishing fuel. Call by telephone to deliver verbal messages. Open, sort, and distribute incoming mail. Perform general office or clerical work such as filing materials, operating duplicating machines, or running errands. Collect, seal, and stamp outgoing mail, using postage meters and envelope sealers. Unload goods from large trucks, and load them onto smaller delivery vehicles.
43-5031| Police, Fire, and Ambulance Dispatchers|Question callers to determine their locations, and the nature of their problems to determine type of response needed. Receive incoming telephone or alarm system calls regarding emergency and non-emergency police and fire service, emergency ambulance service, information, and after-hours calls for departments within a city. Determine response requirements and relative priorities of situations, and dispatch units in accordance with established procedures. Record details of calls, dispatches, and messages. Enter, update, and retrieve information from teletype networks and computerized data systems regarding such things as wanted persons, stolen property, vehicle registration, and stolen vehicles. Maintain access to, and security of, highly sensitive materials. Relay information and messages to and from emergency sites, to law enforcement agencies, and to all other individuals or groups requiring notification. Scan status charts and computer screens, and contact emergency response field units to determine emergency units available for dispatch. Observe alarm registers and scan maps to determine whether a specific emergency is in the dispatch service area. Maintain files of information relating to emergency calls such as personnel rosters, and emergency call-out and pager files. Monitor various radio frequencies such as those used by public works departments, school security, and civil defense to keep apprised of developing situations. Learn material and pass required tests for certification. Read and effectively interpret small-scale maps and information from a computer screen to determine locations and provide directions. Answer routine inquiries, and refer calls not requiring dispatches to appropriate departments and agencies. Test and adjust communication and alarm systems, and report malfunctions to maintenance units. Provide emergency medical instructions to callers. Monitor alarm systems to detect emergencies such as fires and illegal entry into establishments. Operate and maintain mobile dispatch vehicles and equipment.
43-5032| Dispatchers, Except Police, Fire, and Ambulance|Monitor personnel or equipment locations and utilization to coordinate service and schedules. Schedule or dispatch workers, work crews, equipment, or service vehicles to appropriate locations, according to customer requests, specifications, or needs, using radios or telephones. Oversee all communications within specifically assigned territories. Relay work orders, messages, or information to or from work crews, supervisors, or field inspectors, using telephones or two-way radios. Confer with customers or supervising personnel to address questions, problems, or requests for service or equipment. Prepare daily work and run schedules. Record and maintain files or records of customer requests, work or services performed, charges, expenses, inventory, or other dispatch information. Receive or prepare work orders. Determine types or amounts of equipment, vehicles, materials, or personnel required, according to work orders or specifications. Advise personnel about traffic problems, such as construction areas, accidents, congestion, weather conditions, or other hazards. Arrange for necessary repairs to restore service and schedules. Ensure timely and efficient movement of trains, according to train orders and schedules. Order supplies or equipment and issue them to personnel.
43-5041| Meter Readers, Utilities|Read electric, gas, water, or steam consumption meters and enter data in route books or hand-held computers. Walk or drive vehicles along established routes to take readings of meter dials. Upload into office computers all information collected on hand-held computers during meter rounds, or return route books or hand-held computers to business offices so that data can be compiled. Verify readings in cases where consumption appears to be abnormal, and record possible reasons for fluctuations. Inspect meters for unauthorized connections, defects, and damage such as broken seals. Report to service departments any problems such as meter irregularities, damaged equipment, or impediments to meter access, including dogs. Answer customers' questions about services and charges, or direct them to customer service centers. Update client address and meter location information. Leave messages to arrange different times to read meters in cases in which meters are not accessible. Connect and disconnect utility services at specific locations. Collect past-due bills. Report lost or broken keys.
43-5051| Postal Service Clerks|Keep money drawers in order, and record and balance daily transactions. Weigh letters and parcels, compute mailing costs based on type, weight, and destination, and affix correct postage. Obtain signatures from recipients of registered or special delivery mail. Register, certify, and insure letters and parcels. Sell and collect payment for products such as stamps, prepaid mail envelopes, and money orders. Check mail to ensure correct postage and that packages and letters are in proper condition for mailing. Answer questions regarding mail regulations and procedures, postage rates, and post office boxes. Complete forms regarding changes of address, or theft or loss of mail, or for special services such as registered or priority mail. Provide assistance to the public in complying with federal regulations of Postal Service and other federal agencies. Sort incoming and outgoing mail, according to type and destination, by hand or by operating electronic mail-sorting and scanning devices. Cash money orders. Rent post office boxes to customers. Put undelivered parcels away, retrieve them when customers come to claim them, and complete any related documentation. Provide customers with assistance in filing claims for mail theft, or lost or damaged mail. Respond to complaints regarding mail theft, delivery problems, and lost or damaged mail, filling out forms and making appropriate referrals for investigation. Receive letters and parcels, and place mail into bags. Feed mail into postage canceling devices or hand stamp mail to cancel postage. Transport mail from one work station to another. Set postage meters, and calibrate them to ensure correct operation. Post announcements or government information on public bulletin boards.
43-5052| Postal Service Mail Carriers|Obtain signed receipts for registered, certified, and insured mail, collect associated charges, and complete any necessary paperwork. Sort mail for delivery, arranging it in delivery sequence. Deliver mail to residences and business establishments along specified routes by walking or driving, using a combination of satchels, carts, cars, and small trucks. Return to the post office with mail collected from homes, businesses, and public mailboxes. Turn in money and receipts collected along mail routes. Sign for cash-on-delivery and registered mail before leaving the post office. Record address changes and redirect mail for those addresses. Hold mail for customers who are away from delivery locations. Bundle mail in preparation for delivery or transportation to relay boxes. Leave notices telling patrons where to collect mail that could not be delivered. Meet schedules for the collection and return of mail. Return incorrectly addressed mail to senders. Maintain accurate records of deliveries. Answer customers' questions about postal services and regulations. Provide customers with change of address cards and other forms. Report any unusual circumstances concerning mail delivery, including the condition of street letter boxes. Register, certify, and insure parcels and letters. Travel to post offices to pick up the mail for routes or pick up mail from postal relay boxes. Enter change of address orders into computers that process forwarding address stickers. Complete forms that notify publishers of address changes. Sell stamps and money orders.
43-5053| Postal Service Mail Sorters, Processors, and Processing Machine Operators|Direct items according to established routing schemes, using computer-controlled keyboards or voice-recognition equipment. Bundle, label, and route sorted mail to designated areas, depending on destinations and according to established procedures and deadlines. Serve the public at counters or windows, such as by selling stamps and weighing parcels. Train new workers. Distribute incoming mail into the correct boxes or pigeonholes. Operate various types of equipment, such as computer scanning equipment, addressographs, mimeographs, optical character readers, and bar-code sorters. Search directories to find correct addresses for redirected mail. Clear jams in sorting equipment. Check items to ensure that addresses are legible and correct, that sufficient postage has been paid or the appropriate documentation is attached, and that items are in a suitable condition for processing. Open and label mail containers. Rewrap soiled or broken parcels. Weigh articles to determine required postage. Move containers of mail, using equipment such as forklifts and automated "trains". Sort odd-sized mail by hand, sort mail that other workers have been unable to sort, and segregate items requiring special handling. Accept and check containers of mail from large volume mailers, couriers, and contractors. Load and unload mail trucks, sometimes lifting containers of mail onto equipment that transports items to sorting stations. Cancel letter or parcel post stamps by hand. Dump sacks of mail onto conveyors for culling and sorting.
43-5061| Production, Planning, and Expediting Clerks|Distribute production schedules or work orders to departments. Review documents, such as production schedules, work orders, or staffing tables, to determine personnel or materials requirements or material priorities. Requisition and maintain inventories of materials or supplies necessary to meet production demands. Arrange for delivery, assembly, or distribution of supplies or parts to expedite flow of materials and meet production schedules. Confer with department supervisors or other personnel to assess progress and discuss needed changes. Revise production schedules when required due to design changes, labor or material shortages, backlogs, or other interruptions, collaborating with management, marketing, sales, production, or engineering. Confer with establishment personnel, vendors, or customers to coordinate production or shipping activities and to resolve complaints or eliminate delays. Examine documents, materials, or products and monitor work processes to assess completeness, accuracy, and conformance to standards and specifications. Record production data, including volume produced, consumption of raw materials, or quality control measures. Calculate figures, such as required amounts of labor or materials, manufacturing costs, or wages, using pricing schedules, adding machines, calculators, or computers. Compile information, such as production rates and progress, materials inventories, materials used, or customer information, so that status reports can be completed. Compile and prepare documentation related to production sequences, transportation, personnel schedules, or purchase, maintenance, or repair orders. Maintain files, such as maintenance records, bills of lading, or cost reports. Contact suppliers to verify shipment details. Plan production commitments or timetables for business units, specific programs, or jobs, using sales forecasts. Establish and prepare product construction directions and locations and information on required tools, materials, equipment, numbers of workers needed, and cost projections. Provide documentation and information to account for delays, difficulties, or changes to cost estimates.
43-5071| Shipping, Receiving, and Traffic Clerks|Examine shipment contents and compare with records such as manifests, invoices, or orders to verify accuracy. Record shipment data, such as weight, charges, space availability, damages, or discrepancies for reporting, accounting, or recordkeeping purposes. Prepare documents, such as work orders, bills of lading, or shipping orders, to route materials. Confer or correspond with establishment representatives to rectify problems, such as damages, shortages, or nonconformance to specifications. Pack, seal, label, or affix postage to prepare materials for shipping, using hand tools, power tools, or postage meter. Contact carrier representatives to make arrangements or to issue instructions for shipping and delivery of materials. Deliver or route materials to departments using handtruck, conveyor, or sorting bins. Requisition and store shipping materials and supplies to maintain inventory of stock. Determine shipping methods, routes, or rates for materials to be shipped. Compute amounts, such as space available, shipping, storage, or demurrage charges, using computer or price list. Compare shipping routes or methods to determine which have the least environmental impact.
43-5081| Stock Clerks and Order Fillers|Answer customers' questions about merchandise and advise customers on merchandise selection. Stamp, attach, or change price tags on merchandise, referring to price list. Stock shelves, racks, cases, bins, and tables with new or transferred merchandise. Compare merchandise invoices to items actually received to ensure that shipments are correct. Itemize and total customer merchandise selection at checkout counter, using cash register, and accept cash or charge card for purchases. Transport packages to customers' vehicles. Take inventory or examine merchandise to identify items to be reordered or replenished. Receive, open, unpack and issue sales floor merchandise. Clean display cases, shelves, and aisles. Design and set up advertising signs and displays of merchandise on shelves, counters, or tables to attract customers and promote sales. Pack customer purchases in bags or cartons. Requisition merchandise from supplier based on available space, merchandise on hand, customer demand, or advertised specials.Put price information on tickets, marking by hand or using ticket-printing machine. Compare printed price tickets with entries on purchase orders to verify accuracy and notify supervisor of discrepancies. Pin, paste, sew, tie, or staple tickets, tags, or labels to article. Record number and types of articles marked and pack articles in boxes. Mark selling price by hand on boxes containing merchandise. Record price, buyer, and grade of product on tickets attached to products auctioned. Keep records of production, returned goods, and related transactions. Indicate item size, style, color, and inspection results on tags, tickets, and labels, using rubber stamp or writing instrument.Pack and unpack items to be stocked on shelves in stockrooms, warehouses, or storage yards. Store items in an orderly and accessible manner in warehouses, tool rooms, supply rooms, or other areas. Examine and inspect stock items for wear or defects, reporting any damage to supervisors. Receive and count stock items, and record data manually or using computer. Mark stock items using identification tags, stamps, electric marking tools, or other labeling equipment. Verify inventory computations by comparing them to physical counts of stock, and investigate discrepancies or adjust errors. Issue or distribute materials, products, parts, and supplies to customers or coworkers, based on information from incoming requisitions. Provide assistance or direction to other stockroom, warehouse, or storage yard workers. Dispose of damaged or defective items, or return them to vendors. Clean and maintain supplies, tools, equipment, and storage areas to ensure compliance with safety regulations. Recommend disposal of excess, defective, or obsolete stock. Keep records on the use or damage of stock or stock-handling equipment. Prepare and maintain records and reports of inventories, price lists, shortages, shipments, expenditures, and goods used or issued. Determine proper storage methods, identification, and stock location based on turnover, environmental factors, and physical capabilities of facilities. Compile, review, and maintain data from contracts, purchase orders, requisitions, and other documents to assess supply needs. Prepare products, supplies, equipment, or other items for use by adjusting, repairing or assembling them as necessary. Determine sequence and release of back orders according to stock availability. Confer with engineering and purchasing personnel and vendors regarding stock procurement and availability. Purchase new or additional stock, or prepare documents that provide for such purchases. Advise retail customers or internal users on the appropriateness of parts, supplies, or materials requested.Complete order receipts. Obtain merchandise from bins or shelves. Read orders to ascertain catalog numbers, sizes, colors, and quantities of merchandise. Place merchandise on conveyors leading to wrapping areas. Keep records of out-going orders. Compute prices of items or groups of items. Requisition additional materials, supplies, and equipment.
43-5111| Weighers, Measurers, Checkers, and Samplers, Recordkeeping|Collect or prepare measurement, weight, or identification labels and attach them to products. Document quantity, quality, type, weight, test result data, and value of materials or products to maintain shipping, receiving, and production records and files. Compare product labels, tags, or tickets, shipping manifests, purchase orders, and bills of lading to verify accuracy of shipment contents, quality specifications, or weights. Count or estimate quantities of materials, parts, or products received or shipped. Weigh or measure materials, equipment, or products to maintain relevant records, using volume meters, scales, rules, or calipers. Communicate with customers and vendors to exchange information regarding products, materials, and services. Compute product totals and charges for shipments. Collect product samples and prepare them for laboratory analysis or testing. Unload or unpack incoming shipments. Operate scalehouse computers to obtain weight information about incoming shipments such as those from waste haulers. Fill orders for products and samples, following order tickets, and forward or mail items. Sort products or materials into predetermined sequences or groupings for display, packing, shipping, or storage. Signal or instruct other workers to weigh, move, or check products. Maintain financial records, such as accounts of daily collections and billings, and records of receipts issued. Store samples of finished products in labeled cartons and record their location. Remove from stock products or loads not meeting quality standards, and notify supervisors or appropriate departments of discrepancies or shortages. Maintain, monitor, and clean work areas, such as recycling collection sites, drop boxes, counters and windows, and areas around scale houses. Inspect incoming loads of waste to identify contents and to screen for the presence of specific regulated or hazardous wastes. Examine products or materials, parts, subassemblies, and packaging for damage, defects, or shortages, using specification sheets, gauges, and standards charts. Transport materials, products, or samples to processing, shipping, or storage areas, manually or using conveyors, pumps, or hand trucks. Prepare measurement tables and conversion charts, using standard formulas.
43-6011| Executive Secretaries and Executive Administrative Assistants|Prepare invoices, reports, memos, letters, financial statements, and other documents, using word processing, spreadsheet, database, or presentation software. Answer phone calls and direct calls to appropriate parties or take messages. Conduct research, compile data, and prepare papers for consideration and presentation by executives, committees, and boards of directors. Attend meetings to record minutes. Greet visitors and determine whether they should be given access to specific individuals. Read and analyze incoming memos, submissions, and reports to determine their significance and plan their distribution. Perform general office duties, such as ordering supplies, maintaining records management database systems, and performing basic bookkeeping work. File and retrieve corporate documents, records, and reports. Open, sort, and distribute incoming correspondence, including faxes and email. Make travel arrangements for executives. Prepare responses to correspondence containing routine inquiries. Prepare agendas and make arrangements, such as coordinating catering for luncheons, for committee, board, and other meetings. Coordinate and direct office services, such as records, departmental finances, budget preparation, personnel issues, and housekeeping, to aid executives. Provide clerical support to other departments. Manage and maintain executives' schedules. Process payroll information. Compile, transcribe, and distribute minutes of meetings. Set up and oversee administrative policies and procedures for offices or organizations. Supervise and train other clerical staff and arrange for employee training by scheduling training or organizing training material. Interpret administrative and operating policies and procedures for employees. Meet with individuals, special interest groups, and others on behalf of executives, committees, and boards of directors. Review operating practices and procedures to determine whether improvements can be made in areas such as workflow, reporting procedures, or expenditures.
43-6012| Legal Secretaries|Prepare and process legal documents and papers, such as summonses, subpoenas, complaints, appeals, motions, and pretrial agreements. Mail, fax, or arrange for delivery of legal correspondence to clients, witnesses, and court officials. Receive and place telephone calls. Organize and maintain law libraries, documents, and case files. Schedule and make appointments. Make photocopies of correspondence, documents, and other printed matter. Assist attorneys in collecting information such as employment, medical, and other records. Draft and type office memos. Complete various forms, such as accident reports, trial and courtroom requests, and applications for clients. Prepare and distribute invoices to bill clients or pay account expenses. Attend legal meetings, such as client interviews, hearings, or depositions, and take notes. Review legal publications and perform database searches to identify laws and court decisions relevant to pending cases. Submit articles and information from searches to attorneys for review and approval for use.
43-6013| Medical Secretaries|Answer telephones and direct calls to appropriate staff. Schedule and confirm patient diagnostic appointments, surgeries, or medical consultations. Operate office equipment, such as voice mail messaging systems, and use word processing, spreadsheet, or other software applications to prepare reports, invoices, financial statements, letters, case histories, or medical records. Maintain medical records, technical library, or correspondence files. Greet visitors, ascertain purpose of visit, and direct them to appropriate staff. Compile and record medical charts, reports, or correspondence, using typewriter or personal computer. Receive and route messages or documents, such as laboratory results, to appropriate staff. Transmit correspondence or medical records by mail, e-mail, or fax. Perform various clerical or administrative functions, such as ordering and maintaining an inventory of supplies. Interview patients to complete documents, case histories, or forms, such as intake or insurance forms. Perform bookkeeping duties, such as credits or collections, preparing and sending financial statements or bills, and keeping financial records. Schedule tests or procedures for patients, such as lab work or x-rays, based on physician orders. Complete insurance or other claim forms. Transcribe recorded messages or practitioners' diagnoses or recommendations into patients' medical records. Arrange hospital admissions for patients. Prepare correspondence or assist physicians or medical scientists with preparation of reports, speeches, articles, or conference proceedings.
43-6014| Secretaries and Administrative Assistants, Except Legal, Medical, and Executive|Use computers for various applications, such as database management or word processing. Answer telephones and give information to callers, take messages, or transfer calls to appropriate individuals. Create, maintain, and enter information into databases. Set up and manage paper or electronic filing systems, recording information, updating paperwork, or maintaining documents, such as attendance records, correspondence, or other material. Operate office equipment, such as fax machines, copiers, or phone systems and arrange for repairs when equipment malfunctions. Greet visitors or callers and handle their inquiries or direct them to the appropriate persons according to their needs. Maintain scheduling and event calendars. Complete forms in accordance with company procedures. Schedule and confirm appointments for clients, customers, or supervisors. Make copies of correspondence or other printed material. Locate and attach appropriate files to incoming correspondence requiring replies. Operate electronic mail systems and coordinate the flow of information, internally or with other organizations. Compose, type, and distribute meeting notes, routine correspondence, or reports, such as presentations or expense, statistical, or monthly reports. Open, read, route, and distribute incoming mail or other materials and answer routine letters. Provide services to customers, such as order placement or account information. Review work done by others to check for correct spelling and grammar, ensure that company format policies are followed, and recommend revisions. Conduct searches to find needed information, using such sources as the Internet. Manage projects or contribute to committee or team work. Mail newsletters, promotional material, or other information. Order and dispense supplies. Learn to operate new office technologies as they are developed and implemented. Perform payroll functions, such as maintaining timekeeping information and processing and submitting payroll. Collect and deposit money into accounts, disburse funds from cash accounts to pay bills or invoices, keep records of collections and disbursements, and ensure accounts are balanced. Coordinate conferences, meetings, or special events, such as luncheons or graduation ceremonies. Arrange conference, meeting, or travel reservations for office personnel. Establish work procedures or schedules and keep track of the daily work of clerical staff. Develop or maintain internal or external company Web sites. Prepare and mail checks. Supervise other clerical staff and provide training and orientation to new staff. Train and assist staff with computer usage. Prepare conference or event materials, such as flyers or invitations.
43-9011| Computer Operators|Enter commands, using computer terminal, and activate controls on computer and peripheral equipment to integrate and operate equipment. Monitor the system for equipment failure or errors in performance. Respond to program error messages by finding and correcting problems or terminating the program. Notify supervisor or computer maintenance technicians of equipment malfunctions. Answer telephone calls to assist computer users encountering problems. Record information such as computer operating time, problems that occurred, and actions taken. Operate spreadsheet programs and other types of software to load and manipulate data and to produce reports. Help programmers and systems analysts test and debug new programs. Retrieve, separate and sort program output as needed, and send data to specified users. Oversee the operation of computer hardware systems, including coordinating and scheduling the use of computer terminals and networks to ensure efficient use. Read job set-up instructions to determine equipment to be used, order of use, material such as disks and paper to be loaded, and control settings. Load peripheral equipment with selected materials for operating runs, or oversee loading of peripheral equipment by peripheral equipment operators. Supervise and train peripheral equipment operators and computer operator trainees. Type command on keyboard to transfer encoded data from memory unit to magnetic tape and assist in labeling, classifying, cataloging and maintaining tapes. Clear equipment at end of operating run and review schedule to determine next assignment.
43-9021| Data Entry Keyers|Read source documents such as canceled checks, sales reports, or bills, and enter data in specific data fields or onto tapes or disks for subsequent entry, using keyboards or scanners. Compile, sort and verify the accuracy of data before it is entered. Compare data with source documents, or re-enter data in verification format to detect errors. Store completed documents in appropriate locations. Locate and correct data entry errors, or report them to supervisors. Maintain logs of activities and completed work. Select materials needed to complete work assignments. Load machines with required input or output media such as paper, cards, disks, tape or Braille media. Resolve garbled or indecipherable messages, using cryptographic procedures and equipment.
43-9022| Word Processors and Typists|Check completed work for spelling, grammar, punctuation, and format. Perform other clerical duties such as answering telephone, sorting and distributing mail, running errands or sending faxes. Gather, register, and arrange the material to be typed, following instructions. Type correspondence, reports, text and other written material from rough drafts, corrected copies, voice recordings, dictation or previous versions, using a computer, word processor, or typewriter. File and store completed documents on computer hard drive or disk, or maintain a computer filing system to store, retrieve, update and delete documents. Print and make copies of work. Keep records of work performed. Compute and verify totals on report forms, requisitions, or bills, using adding machine or calculator. Collate pages of reports and other documents prepared. Electronically sort and compile text and numerical data, retrieving, updating, and merging documents as required. Reformat documents, moving paragraphs or columns. Search for specific sets of stored, typed characters to make changes. Adjust settings for format, page layout, line spacing, and other style requirements. Address envelopes or prepare envelope labels, using typewriter or computer. Operate and resupply printers and computers, changing print wheels or fluid cartridges, adding paper, and loading blank tapes, cards, or disks into equipment. Transmit work electronically to other locations. Work with technical material, preparing statistical reports, planning and typing statistical tables, and combining and rearranging material from different sources. Use data entry devices, such as optical scanners, to input data into computers for revision or editing. Transcribe stenotyped notes of court proceedings.
43-9031| Desktop Publishers|Check preliminary and final proofs for errors and make necessary corrections. Operate desktop publishing software and equipment to design, lay out, and produce camera-ready copy. Position text and art elements from a variety of databases in a visually appealing way to design print or web pages, using knowledge of type styles and size and layout patterns. Convert various types of files for printing or for the Internet, using computer software. Transmit, deliver or mail publication master to printer for production into film and plates. Study layout or other design instructions to determine work to be done and sequence of operations. Enter digitized data into electronic prepress system computer memory, using scanner, camera, keyboard, or mouse. View monitors for visual representation of work in progress and for instructions and feedback throughout process, making modifications as necessary. Import text and art elements, such as electronic clip art or electronic files from photographs that have been scanned or produced with a digital camera, using computer software. Collaborate with graphic artists, editors and writers to produce master copies according to design specifications. Select number of colors and determine color separations. Prepare sample layouts for approval, using computer software. Edit graphics and photos, using pixel or bitmap editing, airbrushing, masking, or image retouching. Enter text into computer keyboard and select the size and style of type, column width, and appropriate spacing for printed materials. Enter data, such as coordinates of images and color specifications, into system to retouch and make color corrections. Load floppy disks or tapes containing information into system. Store copies of publications on paper, magnetic tape, film or diskette. Create special effects such as vignettes, mosaics, and image combining, and add elements such as sound and animation to electronic publications.
43-9041| Insurance Claims and Policy Processing Clerks|Enter claims information into database systems. Prepare insurance claim forms or related documents and review them for completeness. Calculate amount of claim. Post or attach information to claim file. Transmit claims for payment or further investigation. Contact insured or other involved persons to obtain missing information. Review insurance policy to determine coverage. Organize or work with detailed office or warehouse records, using computers to enter, access, search or retrieve data. Provide customer service, such as limited instructions on proceeding with claims or referrals to auto repair facilities or local contractors. Pay small claims. Apply insurance rating systems.Interview clients and take their calls to provide customer service and obtain information on claims. Process, prepare, and submit business or government forms, such as submitting applications for coverage to insurance carriers. Process and record new insurance policies and claims. Correspond with insured or agent to obtain information or inform them of account status or changes. Organize and work with detailed office or warehouse records, maintaining files for each policyholder, including policies that are to be reinstated or cancelled. Review and verify data, such as age, name, address, and principal sum and value of property on insurance applications and policies. Collect initial premiums and issue receipts. Modify, update, and process existing policies and claims to reflect any change in beneficiary, amount of coverage, or type of insurance. Transcribe data to worksheets and enter data into computer for use in preparing documents and adjusting accounts. Notify insurance agent and accounting department of policy cancellation. Calculate premiums, refunds, commissions, adjustments, and new reserve requirements, using insurance rate standards. Examine letters from policyholders or agents, original insurance applications, and other company documents to determine if changes are needed and effects of changes. Compose business correspondence for supervisors, managers, and professionals. Compare information from application to criteria for policy reinstatement and approve reinstatement when criteria are met. Obtain computer printout of policy cancellations or retrieve cancellation cards from file. Check computations of interest accrued, premiums due, and settlement surrender on loan values.
43-9051| Mail Clerks and Mail Machine Operators, Except Postal Service|Seal or open envelopes, by hand or by using machines. Affix postage to packages or letters by hand, or stamp materials, using postage meters. Verify that items are addressed correctly, marked with the proper postage, and in suitable condition for processing. Place incoming or outgoing letters or packages into sacks or bins based on destination or type, and place identifying tags on sacks or bins. Clear jams in sortation equipment. Sort and route incoming mail, and collect outgoing mail, using carts as necessary. Weigh packages or letters to determine postage needed, using weighing scales and rate charts. Determine manner in which mail is to be sent, and prepare it for delivery to mailing facilities. Lift and unload containers of mail or parcels onto equipment for transportation to sortation stations. Wrap packages or bundles by hand, or by using tying machines. Fold letters or circulars and insert them in envelopes. Remove from machines printed materials such as labeled articles, postmarked envelopes or tape, and folded sheets. Add ink, fill paste reservoirs, and change machine ribbons when necessary. Start machines that automatically feed plates, stencils, or tapes through mechanisms, and observe machine operations to detect any malfunctions. Read production orders to determine types and sizes of items scheduled for printing and mailing. Mail merchandise samples or promotional literature in response to requests. Inspect mail machine output for defects and determine how to eliminate causes of any defects. Remove containers of sorted mail or parcels and transfer them to designated areas according to established procedures. Contact delivery or courier services to arrange delivery of letters and parcels. Insert material for printing or addressing into loading racks on machines, select type or die sizes, and position plates, stencils, or tapes in machine magazines. Stamp dates and times of receipt of incoming mail. Operate computer-controlled keyboards or voice recognition equipment to direct items according to established routing schemes. Adjust guides, rollers, loose card inserters, weighing machines, and tying arms, using rules and hand tools. Accept and check containers of mail or parcels from large volume mailers, couriers, and contractors. Release packages or letters to customers upon presentation of written notices or other identification. Answer inquiries regarding shipping or mailing policies. Use equipment such as forklifts and automated "trains" to move containers of mail.
43-9061| Office Clerks, General|Operate office machines, such as photocopiers and scanners, facsimile machines, voice mail systems, and personal computers. Answer telephones, direct calls, and take messages. Maintain and update filing, inventory, mailing, and database systems, either manually or using a computer. Communicate with customers, employees, and other individuals to answer questions, disseminate or explain information, take orders, and address complaints. Open, sort, and route incoming mail, answer correspondence, and prepare outgoing mail. Compile, copy, sort, and file records of office activities, business transactions, and other activities. Compute, record, and proofread data and other information, such as records or reports. Type, format, proofread, and edit correspondence and other documents, from notes or dictating machines, using computers or typewriters. Complete work schedules, manage calendars, and arrange appointments. Review files, records, and other documents to obtain information to respond to requests. Deliver messages and run errands. Inventory and order materials, supplies, and services. Troubleshoot problems involving office equipment, such as computer hardware and software. Collect, count, and disburse money, do basic bookkeeping, and complete banking transactions. Complete and mail bills, contracts, policies, invoices, or checks. Process and prepare documents, such as business or government forms and expense reports. Monitor and direct the work of lower-level clerks. Make travel arrangements for office personnel. Train other staff members to perform work activities, such as using computer applications. Prepare meeting agendas, attend meetings, and record and transcribe minutes. Count, weigh, measure, or organize materials.
43-9071| Office Machine Operators, Except Computer|Read job orders to determine the type of work to be done, the quantities to be produced, and the materials needed. Operate office machines such as high speed business photocopiers, readers, scanners, addressing machines, stencil-cutting machines, microfilm readers or printers, folding and inserting machines, bursters, and binder machines. Place original copies in feed trays, feed originals into feed rolls, or position originals on tables beneath camera lenses. Compute prices for services and receive payment, or provide supervisors with billing information. Sort, assemble, and proof completed work. Set up and adjust machines, regulating factors such as speed, ink flow, focus, and number of copies. Monitor machine operation, and make adjustments as necessary to ensure proper operation. Load machines with materials such as blank paper or film. Maintain stock of supplies, and requisition any needed items. File and store completed documents. Clean machines, perform minor repairs, and report major repair needs. Operate auxiliary machines such as collators, pad and tablet making machines, staplers, and paper punching, folding, cutting, and perforating machines. Complete records of production, including work volumes and outputs, materials used, and any backlogs. Deliver completed work. Prepare and process papers for use in scanning, microfilming, and microfiche. Cut copies apart and write identifying information, such as page numbers or titles, on copies. Clean and file master copies or plates. Move heat units and clamping frames over screen beds to form Braille impressions on pages, raising frames to release individual copies.
43-9081| Proofreaders and Copy Markers|Correct or record omissions, errors, or inconsistencies found. Mark copy to indicate and correct errors in type, arrangement, grammar, punctuation, or spelling, using standard printers' marks. Read corrected copies or proofs to ensure that all corrections have been made. Compare information or figures on one record against same data on other records, or with original copy, to detect errors. Consult reference books or secure aid of readers to check references with rules of grammar and composition. Route proofs with marked corrections to authors, editors, typists, or typesetters for correction or reprinting. Measure dimensions, spacing, and positioning of page elements (copy and illustrations) in order to verify conformance to specifications, using printer's ruler.
43-9111| Statistical Assistants|Compute and analyze data, using statistical formulas and computers or calculators. Check source data to verify completeness and accuracy. Enter data into computers for use in analyses or reports. Compile reports, charts, or graphs that describe and interpret findings of analyses. Participate in the publication of data or information. File data and related information and maintain and update databases. Organize paperwork, such as survey forms or reports, for distribution or analysis. Code data prior to computer entry, using lists of codes. Compile statistics from source materials, such as production or sales records, quality-control or test records, time sheets, or survey sheets. Interview people and keep track of their responses. Check survey responses for errors, such as the use of pens instead of pencils, and set aside response forms that cannot be used. Select statistical tests for analyzing data. Discuss data presentation requirements with clients. Send out surveys.
45-1011| First-Line Supervisors of Farming, Fishing, and Forestry Workers|Monitor workers to ensure that safety regulations are followed, warning or disciplining those who violate safety regulations. Monitor logging operations to identify and solve problems, improve work methods, and ensure compliance with safety, company, and government regulations. Change logging operations or methods to eliminate unsafe conditions. Train workers in tree felling or bucking, operation of tractors or loading machines, yarding or loading techniques, or safety regulations. Assign to workers duties such as trees to be cut, cutting sequences and specifications, or loading of trucks, railcars, or rafts. Supervise or coordinate the activities of workers engaged in logging operations or silvicultural operations. Plan or schedule logging operations, such as felling or bucking trees or grading, sorting, yarding, or loading logs. Determine logging operation methods, crew sizes, or equipment requirements, conferring with mill, company, or forestry officials as necessary. Communicate with forestry personnel regarding forest harvesting or forest management plans, procedures, or schedules. Coordinate dismantling, moving, and setting up equipment at new work sites. Coordinate the selection and movement of logs from storage areas, according to transportation schedules or production requirements. Schedule work crews, equipment, or transportation for several different work locations. Prepare production or personnel time records for management.Observe fish and beds or ponds to detect diseases, monitor fish growth, determine quality of fish, or determine completeness of harvesting. Record the numbers and types of fish or shellfish reared, harvested, released, sold, and shipped. Assign to workers duties such as fertilizing and incubating spawn, feeding and transferring fish, and planting, cultivating, and harvesting shellfish beds. Confer with managers to determine times and places of seed planting, and cultivating, feeding, or harvesting of fish or shellfish. Direct and monitor worker activities, such as treatment and rearing of fingerlings, maintenance of equipment, and harvesting of fish or shellfish. Prepare or direct the preparation of fish food, and specify medications to be added to food and water to treat fish for diseases. Engage in the same fishery work as workers supervised. Train workers in spawning, rearing, cultivating, and harvesting methods, and in the use of equipment. Direct workers to correct problems such as disease, quality of seed distribution, or adequacy of cultivation. Plan work schedules according to personnel and equipment availability, tidal levels, feeding schedules, or transfer and harvest needs. Interview and select new employees. Maintain workers' time records. Perform both supervisory and management functions, such as accounting, marketing, and personnel work. Requisition supplies. Supervise the artificial spawning of various salmon and trout species. Select and ship eggs to other hatcheries.Assign duties, such as cultivation, irrigation, or harvesting of crops or plants, product packaging or grading, or equipment maintenance. Train workers in techniques such as planting, harvesting, weeding, or insect identification and in the use of safety measures. Confer with managers to evaluate weather or soil conditions, to develop plans or procedures, or to discuss issues such as changes in fertilizers, herbicides, or cultivating techniques. Inspect crops, fields, or plant stock to determine conditions and need for cultivating, spraying, weeding, or harvesting. Review employees' work to evaluate quality and quantity. Observe workers to detect inefficient or unsafe work procedures or to identify problems, initiating corrective action as necessary. Drive or operate farm machinery, such as trucks, tractors, or self-propelled harvesters, to transport workers or supplies or to cultivate or harvest fields. Estimate labor requirements for jobs and plan work schedules accordingly. Plan or supervise infrastructure or collection maintenance functions, such as planting, fertilizing, pest or weed control, or landscaping. Read inventory records, customer orders, or shipping schedules to determine required activities. Direct or assist with the adjustment or repair of farm equipment or machinery. Inspect facilities to determine maintenance needs. Prepare and maintain time or payroll reports, as well as details of personnel actions, such as performance evaluations, hires, promotions, or disciplinary actions. Requisition or purchase supplies, such as insecticides, machine parts or lubricants, or tools. Monitor or oversee construction projects, such as horticultural buildings or irrigation systems. Investigate grievances and settle disputes to maintain harmony among workers. Issue equipment, such as farm implements, machinery, ladders, or containers to workers, and collect equipment when work is complete. Recruit, hire, or discharge workers. Calculate or monitor budgets for maintenance or development of collections, grounds, or infrastructure. Perform hardscape activities, including installation or repair of irrigation systems, resurfacing or grading of paths, rockwork, or erosion control. Perform the same horticultural or agricultural duties as subordinates. Prepare reports regarding farm conditions, crop yields, machinery breakdowns, or labor problems. Contract with seasonal workers and farmers to provide employment. Arrange for transportation, equipment, or living quarters for seasonal workers.Observe animals for signs of illness, injury, or unusual behavior, notifying veterinarians or managers as warranted. Monitor animal care, maintenance, breeding, or packing and transfer activities to ensure work is done correctly. Train workers in animal care procedures, maintenance duties, and safety precautions. Treat animal illnesses or injuries, following experience or instructions of veterinarians. Assign tasks such as feeding and treatment of animals, and cleaning and maintenance of animal quarters. Perform the same animal care duties as subordinates. Prepare reports concerning facility activities, employees' time records, and animal treatment. Confer with managers to determine production requirements, conditions of equipment and supplies, and work schedules. Study feed, weight, health, genetic, or milk production records to determine feed formulas and rations and breeding schedules. Direct and assist workers in maintenance and repair of facilities. Inspect buildings, fences, fields or ranges, supplies, and equipment to determine work to be performed. Establish work schedules and procedures. Transport or arrange for transport of animals, equipment, food, animal feed, and other supplies to and from work sites. Plan budgets and arrange for purchase of animals, feed, or supplies. Operate euthanasia equipment to destroy animals. Recruit, hire, and pay workers. Inseminate livestock artificially to produce desired offspring. Investigate complaints of animal neglect or cruelty, and follow up on complaints appearing to require prosecution.
45-2011| Agricultural Inspectors|Inspect food products and processing procedures to determine whether products are safe to eat. Interpret and enforce government acts and regulations and explain required standards to agricultural workers. Set standards for the production of meat or poultry products or for food ingredients, additives, or compounds used to prepare or package products. Inspect agricultural commodities or related operations, as well as fish or logging operations, for compliance with laws and regulations governing health, quality, and safety. Label and seal graded products and issue official grading certificates. Monitor the operations and sanitary conditions of slaughtering or meat processing plants. Take emergency actions, such as closing production facilities, if product safety is compromised. Verify that transportation and handling procedures meet regulatory requirements. Inspect the cleanliness and practices of establishment employees. Examine, weigh, and measure commodities, such as poultry, eggs, meat, or seafood to certify qualities, grades, and weights. Inspect or test horticultural products or livestock to detect harmful diseases, chemical residues, or infestations and to determine the quality of products or animals. Monitor the grading performed by company employees to verify conformance to standards. Set labeling standards and approve labels for meat or poultry products. Write reports of findings and recommendations and advise farmers, growers, or processors of corrective action to be taken. Direct or monitor the quarantine and treatment or destruction of plants or plant products. Collect samples from animals, plants, or products and route them to laboratories for microbiological assessment, ingredient verification, or other testing. Review and monitor foreign product inspection systems in countries of origin to ensure equivalence to the U.S. system. Inquire about pesticides or chemicals to which animals may have been exposed. Provide consultative services in areas such as equipment or product evaluation, plant construction or layout, or food safety systems. Testify in legal proceedings. Compare product recipes with government-approved formulas or recipes to determine acceptability. Advise farmers or growers of development programs or new equipment or techniques to aid in quality production.
45-2021|Animal Breeders|Feed and water animals, and clean and disinfect pens, cages, yards, and hutches. Examine animals to detect symptoms of illness or injury. Place vaccines in drinking water, inject vaccines, or dust air with vaccine powder to protect animals from diseases. Select animals to be bred, and semen specimens to be used, according to knowledge of animals, genealogies, traits, and desired offspring characteristics. Treat minor injuries and ailments and contact veterinarians to obtain treatment for animals with serious illnesses or injuries. Observe animals in heat to detect approach of estrus and exercise animals to induce or hasten estrus, if necessary. Record animal characteristics such as weights, growth patterns, and diets. Exhibit animals at shows. Build hutches, pens, and fenced yards. Clip or shear hair on animals. Package and label semen to be used for artificial insemination, recording information such as the date, source, quality, and concentration. Prepare containers of semen for freezing and storage or shipment, placing them in dry ice or liquid nitrogen. Maintain logs of semen specimens used and animals bred. Arrange for sale of animals and eggs to hospitals, research centers, pet shops, and food processing plants. Measure specified amounts of semen into calibrated syringes, and insert syringes into inseminating guns. Inject prepared animal semen into female animals for breeding purposes, by inserting nozzle of syringe into vagina and depressing syringe plunger. Adjust controls to maintain specific building temperatures required for animals' health and safety. Examine semen microscopically to assess and record density and motility of gametes, and dilute semen with prescribed diluents, according to formulas. Brand, tattoo, or tag animals to allow animal identification. Perform procedures such as animal dehorning or castration.
45-2041| Graders and Sorters, Agricultural Products|Grade and sort products according to factors such as color, species, length, width, appearance, feel, smell, and quality to ensure correct processing and usage. Discard inferior or defective products or foreign matter, and place acceptable products in containers for further processing. Weigh products or estimate their weight, visually or by feel. Place products in containers according to grade and mark grades on containers. Record grade or identification numbers on tags or on shipping, receiving, or sales sheets.
45-2091| Agricultural Equipment Operators|Adjust, repair, and service farm machinery and notify supervisors when machinery malfunctions. Observe and listen to machinery operation to detect equipment malfunctions. Irrigate soil, using portable pipes or ditch systems, and maintain ditches or pipes and pumps. Mix specified materials or chemicals, and dump solutions, powders, or seeds into planter or sprayer machinery. Operate or tend equipment used in agricultural production, such as tractors, combines, and irrigation equipment. Manipulate controls to set, activate, and adjust mechanisms on machinery. Direct and monitor the activities of work crews engaged in planting, weeding, or harvesting activities. Load hoppers, containers, or conveyors to feed machines with products, using forklifts, transfer augers, suction gates, shovels, or pitchforks. Spray fertilizer or pesticide solutions to control insects, fungus and weed growth, and diseases, using hand sprayers. Attach farm implements such as plows, discs, sprayers, or harvesters to tractors, using bolts and hand tools. Operate towed machines such as seed drills or manure spreaders to plant, fertilize, dust, and spray crops. Drive trucks to haul crops, supplies, tools, or farm workers. Walk beside or ride on planting machines while inserting plants in planter mechanisms at specified intervals. Weigh crop-filled containers, and record weights and other identifying information. Load and unload crops or containers of materials, manually or using conveyors, handtrucks, forklifts, or transfer augers.
45-2092| Farmworkers and Laborers, Crop, Nursery, and Greenhouse|Plant, spray, weed, fertilize, and water plants, shrubs, and trees, using hand tools and gardening tools. Harvest plants, and transplant or pot and label them. Feel plants' leaves and note their coloring to detect the presence of insects or disease. Operate tractors and other machinery and equipment to fertilize, cultivate, harvest, and spray fields and plants. Inspect plants and bud ties to assess quality. Dig, cut, and transplant seedlings, cuttings, trees, and shrubs. Move containerized shrubs, plants, and trees, using wheelbarrows or tractors. Clean work areas, and maintain grounds and landscaping. Haul and spread topsoil, fertilizer, peat moss, and other materials to condition soil, using wheelbarrows or carts and shovels. Maintain and repair irrigation and climate control systems. Record information about plants and plant growth. Sell and deliver plants and flowers to customers. Fill growing tanks with water. Tie and bunch flowers, plants, shrubs, and trees, wrap their roots, and pack them into boxes to fill orders. Regulate greenhouse conditions, and indoor and outdoor irrigation systems. Dig, rake, and screen soil, filling cold frames and hot beds in preparation for planting. Dip cut flowers into disinfectant, count them into bunches, and place them in boxes to prepare them for storage and shipping. Sow grass seed, or plant plugs of grass. Maintain inventory, ordering materials as required. Cut, roll, and stack sod. Provide information and advice to the public regarding the selection, purchase, and care of products. Fold and staple corrugated forms to make boxes used for packing horticultural products. Trap and destroy pests such as moles, gophers, and mice, using pesticides.Set up and operate irrigation equipment. Operate tractors, tractor-drawn machinery, and self-propelled machinery to plow, harrow and fertilize soil, or to plant, cultivate, spray and harvest crops. Repair and maintain farm vehicles, implements, and mechanical equipment. Harvest fruits and vegetables by hand. Apply pesticides, herbicides or fertilizers to crops. Inform farmers or farm managers of crop progress. Identify plants, pests, and weeds to determine the selection and application of pesticides and fertilizers. Direct and monitor the work of casual and seasonal help during planting and harvesting. Clear and maintain irrigation ditches. Record information about crops, such as pesticide use, yields, or costs. Dig and plant seeds, or transplant seedlings by hand. Repair farm buildings, fences, and other structures. Participate in the inspection, grading, sorting, storage, and post-harvest treatment of crops. Load agricultural products into trucks, and drive trucks to market or storage facilities.
45-2093| Farmworkers, Farm, Ranch, and Aquacultural Animals|Feed and water livestock and monitor food and water supplies. Drive trucks, tractors, and other equipment to distribute feed to animals. Examine animals to detect illness, injury, or disease, and to check physical characteristics, such as rate of weight gain. Provide medical treatment, such as administering medications and vaccinations, or arrange for veterinarians to provide more extensive treatment. Mix feed, additives, and medicines in prescribed portions. Inspect, maintain, and repair equipment, machinery, buildings, pens, yards, and fences. Move equipment, poultry, or livestock from one location to another, manually or using trucks or carts. Clean stalls, pens, and equipment, using disinfectant solutions, brushes, shovels, water hoses, or pumps. Mark livestock to identify ownership and grade, using brands, tags, paint, or tattoos. Herd livestock to pastures for grazing or to scales, trucks, or other enclosures. Shift animals between grazing areas to ensure that they have sufficient access to food. Order food for animals, and arrange for its delivery. Perform duties related to livestock reproduction, such as breeding animals within appropriate timeframes, performing artificial inseminations, and helping with animal births. Milk animals such as cows and goats, by hand or using milking machines. Segregate animals according to weight, age, color, and physical condition. Patrol grazing lands on horseback or using all-terrain vehicles. Maintain growth, feeding, production, and cost records. Groom, clip, trim, or castrate animals, dock ears and tails, or shear coats to collect hair. Spray livestock with disinfectants and insecticides, or dip or bathe animals.
45-3011| Fishers and Related Fishing Workers|Steer vessels and operate navigational instruments. Put fishing equipment into the water and anchor or tow equipment, according to the fishing method used. Maintain engines, fishing gear, and other on-board equipment and perform minor repairs. Sort, pack, and store catch in holds with salt and ice. Remove catches from fishing equipment and measure them to ensure compliance with legal size. Locate fish, using fish-finding equipment. Return undesirable or illegal catches to the water. Pull and guide nets, traps, and lines onto vessels, by hand or using hoisting equipment. Direct fishing operations, and supervise fishing crew members. Signal other workers to move, hoist, and position loads. Compute positions and plot courses on charts to navigate vessels, using instruments such as compasses, sextants, and charts. Oversee the purchase of supplies, gear, and equipment such as fuel, netting, and cables. Attach nets, slings, hooks, blades, or lifting devices to cables, booms, hoists, or dredges. Transport fish to processing plants or to buyers. Interpret weather and vessel conditions to determine appropriate responses. Wash decks, conveyors, knives, and other equipment, using brushes, detergents, and water. Connect accessories such as floats, weights, flags, lights, or markers to nets, lines, or traps. Load and unload vessel equipment and supplies, by hand or using hoisting equipment. Harvest marine life for human or animal consumption, using diving or dredging equipment, traps, barges, rods, reels, or tackle. Hire qualified crew members, and assign their duties. Plan fishing operations, establishing the fish to be sought, the fishing location, the method of capture, and the duration of the trip. Stand lookout for schools of fish, and for steering and engine-room watches. Operate rowboats, dinghies, or skiffs to transport fishers, divers, or sponge hookers or to tow and position fishing equipment. Sell catches by contacting and negotiating with buyers or by sending catches to fish auctions. Club or gaff large fish to enable hauling them into fishing vessel. Monitor distribution of proceeds from sales of catches to ensure that crew members receive their prearranged portions. Record in logbooks specifics of fishing activities such as dates, harvest areas, yields, and weather and sea conditions. Estimate costs of operations and plan fishing season budgets accordingly. Share fishing expertise through activities such as writing for fishing magazines, hosting television shows, or testing and endorsing fishing equipment. Participate in wildlife management, disease control, and research activities.
45-3021| Hunters and Trappers|Maintain and repair trapping equipment. Patrol trap lines or nets to inspect settings, remove catch, and reset or relocate traps. Obtain required approvals for using poisons or traps, and notify persons in areas where traps and poison are set. Trap and capture quarry dead or alive for identification, relocation, or sale, using baited, scented, or camouflaged traps, snares, cages, or nets. Scrape fat, blubber, or flesh from skin sides of pelts with knives or hand scrapers. Kill or stun trapped quarry, using clubs, poisons, guns, or drowning methods. Select, bait, and set traps, and lay poison along trails, according to species, size, habits, and environs of birds or animals and reasons for trapping them. Skin quarry, using knives, and stretch pelts on frames to be cured. Travel on foot, by vehicle, or by equipment such as boats, snowmobiles, helicopters, snowshoes, or skis to reach hunting areas. Track animals by checking for signs such as droppings or destruction of vegetation. Pack pelts in containers, load containers onto trucks, and transport pelts to processing plants or to public auctions. Participate in animal damage control, wildlife management, disease control, and research activities. Teach or guide individuals or groups unfamiliar with specific hunting methods or types of prey. Wash and sort pelts according to species, color, and quality. Mix baits for attracting animals. Decide where to set traps, using grid maps and aerial maps of hunting areas. Remove designated parts such as ears or tails from slain quarry as evidence for killing bounty, using knives. Train dogs for hunting. Release quarry from traps or nets and transfer to cages.
45-4011| Forest and Conservation Workers|Check equipment to ensure that it is operating properly. Confer with other workers to discuss issues such as safety, cutting heights, or work needs. Gather, package, or deliver forest products to buyers. Sow or harvest cover crops, such as alfalfa. Spray or inject vegetation with insecticides to kill insects or to protect against disease or with herbicides to reduce competing vegetation. Maintain tallies of trees examined and counted during tree marking or measuring efforts. Identify diseased or undesirable trees and remove them, using power saws or hand saws. Drag cut trees from cutting areas and load trees onto trucks. Sort tree seedlings, discarding substandard seedlings, according to standard charts or verbal instructions. Operate skidders, bulldozers, or other prime movers to pull a variety of scarification or site preparation equipment over areas to be regenerated. Explain or enforce regulations regarding camping, vehicle use, fires, use of buildings, or sanitation. Perform fire protection or suppression duties, such as constructing fire breaks or disposing of brush. Examine and grade trees according to standard charts and staple color-coded grade tags to limbs. Erect signs or fences, using posthole diggers, shovels, or other hand tools. Fight forest fires or perform prescribed burning tasks under the direction of fire suppression officers or forestry technicians. Provide assistance to forest survey crews by clearing site-lines, holding measuring tools, or setting stakes. Select or cut trees according to markings or sizes, types, or grades.
45-4021| Fallers|Stop saw engines, pull cutting bars from cuts, and run to safety as tree falls. Appraise trees for certain characteristics, such as twist, rot, and heavy limb growth, and gauge amount and direction of lean, to determine how to control the direction of a tree's fall with the least damage. Saw back-cuts, leaving sufficient sound wood to control direction of fall. Clear brush from work areas and escape routes, and cut saplings and other trees from direction of falls, using axes, chainsaws, or bulldozers. Measure felled trees and cut them into specified log lengths, using chain saws and axes. Assess logs after cutting to ensure that the quality and length are correct. Determine position, direction, and depth of cuts to be made, and placement of wedges or jacks. Control the direction of a tree's fall by scoring cutting lines with axes, sawing undercuts along scored lines with chainsaws, knocking slabs from cuts with single-bit axes, and driving wedges. Trim off the tops and limbs of trees, using chainsaws, delimbers, or axes. Select trees to be cut down, assessing factors such as site, terrain, and weather conditions before beginning work. Maintain and repair chainsaws and other equipment, cleaning, oiling, and greasing equipment, and sharpening equipment properly. Insert jacks or drive wedges behind saws to prevent binding of saws and to start trees falling. Tag unsafe trees with high-visibility ribbons. Secure steel cables or chains to logs for dragging by tractors or for pulling by cable yarding systems. Load logs or wood onto trucks, trailers, or railroad cars, by hand or using loaders or winches. Mark logs for identification. Work as a member of a team, rotating between chain saw operation and skidder operation.
45-4022| Logging Equipment Operators|Inspect equipment for safety prior to use, and perform necessary basic maintenance tasks. Drive straight or articulated tractors equipped with accessories such as bulldozer blades, grapples, logging arches, cable winches, and crane booms, to skid, load, unload, or stack logs, pull stumps, or clear brush. Drive crawler or wheeled tractors to drag or transport logs from felling sites to log landing areas for processing and loading. Drive tractors for the purpose of building or repairing logging and skid roads. Grade logs according to characteristics such as knot size and straightness, and according to established industry or company standards. Control hydraulic tractors equipped with tree clamps and booms to lift, swing, and bunch sheared trees. Drive and maneuver tractors and tree harvesters to shear the tops off of trees, cut and limb the trees, and cut the logs into desired lengths. Fill out required job or shift report forms. Calculate total board feet, cordage, or other wood measurement units, using conversion tables.
45-4023| Log Graders and Scalers|Evaluate log characteristics and determine grades, using established criteria. Record data about individual trees or load volumes into tally books or hand-held collection terminals. Paint identification marks of specified colors on logs to identify grades or species, using spray cans, or call out grades to log markers. Measure felled logs or loads of pulpwood to calculate volume, weight, dimensions, and marketable value, using measuring devices and conversion tables. Measure log lengths and mark boles for bucking into logs, according to specifications. Identify logs of substandard or special grade so that they can be returned to shippers, regraded, recut, or transferred for other processing. Jab logs with metal ends of scale sticks, and inspect logs to ascertain characteristics or defects such as water damage, splits, knots, broken ends, rotten areas, twists, and curves. Drive to sawmills, wharfs, or skids to inspect logs or pulpwood. Communicate with coworkers by using signals to direct log movement. Weigh log trucks before and after unloading, and record load weights and supplier identities. Saw felled trees into lengths.
47-1011|Supervisors of Construction and Extraction Workers|Supervise, coordinate, or schedule the activities of construction or extractive workers. Read specifications, such as blueprints, to determine construction requirements or to plan procedures. Inspect work progress, equipment, or construction sites to verify safety or to ensure that specifications are met. Locate, measure, and mark site locations or placement of structures or equipment, using measuring and marking equipment. Coordinate work activities with other construction project activities. Assign work to employees, based on material or worker requirements of specific jobs. Estimate material or worker requirements to complete jobs. Confer with managerial or technical personnel, other departments, or contractors to resolve problems or to coordinate activities. Order or requisition materials or supplies. Analyze worker or production problems and recommend solutions, such as improving production methods or implementing motivational plans. Train workers in construction methods, operation of equipment, safety procedures, or company policies. Record information such as personnel, production, or operational data on specified forms or reports. Provide assistance to workers engaged in construction or extraction activities, using hand tools or other equipment. Arrange for repairs of equipment or machinery. Suggest or initiate personnel actions, such as promotions, transfers, or hires.
47-2011| Boilermakers|Attach rigging and signal crane or hoist operators to lift heavy frame and plate sections or other parts into place. Study blueprints to determine locations, relationships, or dimensions of parts. Repair or replace defective pressure vessel parts, such as safety valves or regulators, using torches, jacks, caulking hammers, power saws, threading dies, welding equipment, or metalworking machinery. Locate and mark reference points for columns or plates on boiler foundations, following blueprints and using straightedges, squares, transits, or measuring instruments. Bolt or arc weld pressure vessel structures and parts together, using wrenches or welding equipment. Position, align, and secure structural parts or related assemblies to boiler frames, tanks, or vats of pressure vessels, following blueprints. Install manholes, handholes, taps, tubes, valves, gauges, or feedwater connections in drums of water tube boilers, using hand tools. Shape or fabricate parts, such as stacks, uptakes, or chutes, to adapt pressure vessels, heat exchangers, or piping to premises, using heavy-metalworking machines such as brakes, rolls, or drill presses. Assemble large vessels in an on-site fabrication shop prior to installation to ensure proper fit. Lay out plate, sheet steel, or other heavy metal and locate and mark bending and cutting lines, using protractors, compasses, and drawing instruments or templates. Examine boilers, pressure vessels, tanks, or vats to locate defects, such as leaks, weak spots, or defective sections, so that they can be repaired. Shape seams, joints, or irregular edges of pressure vessel sections or structural parts to attain specified fit of parts, using cutting torches, hammers, files, or metalworking machines. Inspect assembled vessels or individual components, such as tubes, fittings, valves, controls, or auxiliary mechanisms, to locate any defects. Straighten or reshape bent pressure vessel plates or structure parts, using hammers, jacks, or torches. Install refractory bricks or other heat-resistant materials in fireboxes of pressure vessels. Clean pressure vessel equipment, using scrapers, wire brushes, and cleaning solvents. Bell, bead with power hammers, or weld pressure vessel tube ends to ensure leakproof joints.
47-2021| Brickmasons and Blockmasons|Remove excess mortar with trowels and hand tools, and finish mortar joints with jointing tools, for a sealed, uniform appearance. Construct corners by fastening in plumb position a corner pole or building a corner pyramid of bricks, and filling in between the corners using a line from corner to corner to guide each course, or layer, of brick. Measure distance from reference points and mark guidelines to lay out work, using plumb bobs and levels. Break or cut bricks, tiles, or blocks to size, using trowel edge, hammer, or power saw. Interpret blueprints and drawings to determine specifications and to calculate the materials required. Fasten or fuse brick or other building material to structure with wire clamps, anchor holes, torch, or cement. Lay and align bricks, blocks, or tiles to build or repair structures or high temperature equipment, such as cupola, kilns, ovens, or furnaces. Mix specified amounts of sand, clay, dirt, or mortar powder with water to form refractory mixtures. Calculate angles and courses and determine vertical and horizontal alignment of courses. Clean working surface to remove scale, dust, soot, or chips of brick and mortar, using broom, wire brush, or scraper. Apply and smooth mortar or other mixture over work surface. Examine brickwork or structure to determine need for repair. Remove burned or damaged brick or mortar, using sledgehammer, crowbar, chipping gun, or chisel. Spray or spread refractory material over brickwork to protect against deterioration.
47-2022| Stonemasons|Lay out wall patterns or foundations, using straight edge, rule, or staked lines. Shape, trim, face and cut marble or stone preparatory to setting, using power saws, cutting equipment, and hand tools. Set vertical and horizontal alignment of structures, using plumb bob, gauge line, and level. Mix mortar or grout and pour or spread mortar or grout on marble slabs, stone, or foundation. Remove wedges, fill joints between stones, finish joints between stones, using a trowel, and smooth the mortar to an attractive finish, using a tuck pointer. Set stone or marble in place, according to layout or pattern. Clean excess mortar or grout from surface of marble, stone, or monument, using sponge, brush, water, or acid. Lay brick to build shells of chimneys and smokestacks or to line or reline industrial furnaces, kilns, boilers and similar installations. Replace broken or missing masonry units in walls or floors. Smooth, polish, and bevel surfaces, using hand tools and power tools. Drill holes in marble or ornamental stone and anchor brackets in holes. Repair cracked or chipped areas of stone or marble, using blowtorch and mastic, and remove rough or defective spots from concrete, using power grinder or chisel and hammer. Remove sections of monument from truck bed, and guide stone onto foundation, using skids, hoist, or truck crane. Construct and install prefabricated masonry units. Dig trench for foundation of monument, using pick and shovel. Position mold along guidelines of wall, press mold in place, and remove mold and paper from wall. Line interiors of molds with treated paper and fill molds with composition-stone mixture.
47-2031| Carpenters|Follow established safety rules and regulations and maintain a safe and clean environment. Study specifications in blueprints, sketches, or building plans to prepare project layout and determine dimensions and materials required. Measure and mark cutting lines on materials, using a ruler, pencil, chalk, and marking gauge. Shape or cut materials to specified measurements, using hand tools, machines, or power saws. Install structures or fixtures, such as windows, frames, floorings, trim, or hardware, using carpenters' hand or power tools. Verify trueness of structure, using plumb bob and level. Select and order lumber or other required materials. Arrange for subcontractors to deal with special areas, such as heating or electrical wiring work. Maintain records, document actions, and present written progress reports. Build or repair cabinets, doors, frameworks, floors, or other wooden fixtures used in buildings, using woodworking machines, carpenter's hand tools, or power tools. Erect scaffolding or ladders for assembling structures above ground level. Inspect ceiling or floor tile, wall coverings, siding, glass, or woodwork to detect broken or damaged structures. Assemble and fasten materials to make frameworks or props, using hand tools and wood screws, nails, dowel pins, or glue. Remove damaged or defective parts or sections of structures and repair or replace, using hand tools. Finish surfaces of woodwork or wallboard in houses or buildings, using paint, hand tools, or paneling. Apply shock-absorbing, sound-deadening, or decorative paneling to ceilings or walls. Cover subfloors with building paper to keep out moisture and lay hardwood, parquet, or wood-strip-block floors by nailing floors to subfloor or cementing them to mastic or asphalt base. Fill cracks or other defects in plaster or plasterboard and sand patch, using patching plaster, trowel, and sanding tool. Perform minor plumbing, welding, or concrete mixing work. Prepare cost estimates for clients or employers. Construct forms or chutes for pouring concrete. Work with or remove hazardous material.Measure materials or distances, using square, measuring tape, or rule to lay out work. Study blueprints and diagrams to determine dimensions of structure or form to be constructed. Cut or saw boards, timbers, or plywood to required size, using handsaw, power saw, or woodworking machine. Mark cutting lines on materials, using pencil and scriber. Anchor and brace forms and other structures in place, using nails, bolts, anchor rods, steel cables, planks, wedges, and timbers. Erect forms, framework, scaffolds, hoists, roof supports, or chutes, using hand tools, plumb rule, and level. Assemble and fasten material together to construct wood or metal framework of structure, using bolts, nails, or screws. Bore boltholes in timber, masonry or concrete walls, using power drill. Maintain job records and schedule work crew. Install rough door and window frames, subflooring, fixtures, or temporary supports in structures undergoing construction or repair. Examine structural timbers and supports to detect decay, and replace timbers as required, using hand tools, nuts, and bolts. Fabricate parts, using woodworking and metalworking machines. Dig or direct digging of post holes and set poles to support structures.
47-2041| Carpet Installers|Inspect the surface to be covered to determine its condition, and correct any imperfections that might show through carpet or cause carpet to wear unevenly. Roll out, measure, mark, and cut carpeting to size with a carpet knife, following floor sketches and allowing extra carpet for final fitting. Join edges of carpet and seam edges where necessary, by sewing or by using tape with glue and heated carpet iron. Cut and trim carpet to fit along wall edges, openings, and projections, finishing the edges with a wall trimmer. Plan the layout of the carpet, allowing for expected traffic patterns and placing seams for best appearance and longest wear. Stretch carpet to align with walls and ensure a smooth surface, and press carpet in place over tack strips or use staples, tape, tacks or glue to hold carpet in place. Take measurements and study floor sketches to calculate the area to be carpeted and the amount of material needed. Install carpet on some floors using adhesive, following prescribed method. Clean up before and after installation, including vacuuming carpet and discarding remnant pieces. Measure, cut and install tackless strips along the baseboard or wall. Nail tack strips around area to be carpeted or use old strips to attach edges of new carpet. Cut carpet padding to size and install padding, following prescribed method. Fasten metal treads across door openings or where carpet meets flooring to hold carpet in place. Draw building diagrams and record dimensions. Move furniture from area to be carpeted and remove old carpet and padding. Cut and bind material.
47-2042| Floor Layers, Except Carpet, Wood, and Hard Tiles|Sweep, scrape, sand, or chip dirt and irregularities to clean base surfaces, correcting imperfections that may show through the covering. Cut flooring material to fit around obstructions. Inspect surface to be covered to ensure that it is firm and dry. Trim excess covering materials, tack edges, and join sections of covering material to form tight joint. Form a smooth foundation by stapling plywood or Masonite over the floor or by brushing waterproof compound onto surface and filling cracks with plaster, putty, or grout to seal pores. Measure and mark guidelines on surfaces or foundations, using chalk lines and dividers. Cut covering and foundation materials, according to blueprints and sketches. Roll and press sheet wall and floor covering into cement base to smooth and finish surface, using hand roller. Apply adhesive cement to floor or wall material to join and adhere foundation material. Determine traffic areas and decide location of seams. Lay out, position, and apply shock-absorbing, sound-deadening, or decorative coverings to floors, walls, and cabinets, following guidelines to keep courses straight and create designs. Remove excess cement to clean finished surface. Disconnect and remove appliances, light fixtures, and worn floor and wall covering from floors, walls, and cabinets. Heat and soften floor covering materials to patch cracks or fit floor coverings around irregular surfaces, using blowtorch.
47-2043| Floor Sanders and Finishers|Inspect floors for smoothness. Scrape and sand floor edges and areas inaccessible to floor sanders, using scrapers, disk-type sanders, and sandpaper. Guide sanding machines over surfaces of floors until surfaces are smooth. Attach sandpaper to rollers of sanding machines. Apply filler compound and coats of finish to floors to seal wood. Remove excess glue from joints, using knives, scrapers, or wood chisels.
47-2044| Tile and Marble Setters|Cut and shape tile to fit around obstacles and into odd spaces and corners, using hand and power cutting tools. Lay and set mosaic tiles to create decorative wall, mural, and floor designs. Align and straighten tile using levels, squares, and straightedges. Determine and implement the best layout to achieve a desired pattern. Measure and mark surfaces to be tiled, following blueprints. Finish and dress the joints and wipe excess grout from between tiles, using damp sponge. Cut, surface, polish, and install marble and granite or install pre-cast terrazzo, granite or marble units. Mix, apply, and spread plaster, concrete, mortar, cement, mastic, glue or other adhesives to form a bed for the tiles, using brush, trowel and screed. Apply mortar to tile back, position the tile, and press or tap with trowel handle to affix tile to base. Level concrete and allow to dry. Prepare surfaces for tiling by attaching lath or waterproof paper, or by applying a cement mortar coat to a metal screen. Mix and apply mortar or cement to edges and ends of drain tiles to seal halves and joints. Remove and replace cracked or damaged tile. Apply a sealer to make grout stain- and water-resistant. Remove any old tile, grout and adhesive using chisels and scrapers and clean the surface carefully. Prepare cost and labor estimates, based on calculations of time and materials needed for project. Study blueprints and examine surface to be covered to determine amount of material needed. Spread mastic or other adhesive base on roof deck to form base for promenade tile, using serrated spreader. Cut tile backing to required size, using shears. Install and anchor fixtures in designated positions, using hand tools. Assist customers in selection of tile and grout. Select and order tile and other items to be installed, such as bathroom accessories, walls, panels, and cabinets, according to specifications. Measure and cut metal lath to size for walls and ceilings, using tin snips. Build underbeds and install anchor bolts, wires, and brackets.
47-2051| Cement Masons and Concrete Finishers|Set the forms that hold concrete to the desired pitch and depth, and align them. Check the forms that hold the concrete to see that they are properly constructed. Spread, level, and smooth concrete, using rake, shovel, hand or power trowel, hand or power screed, and float. Monitor how the wind, heat, or cold affect the curing of the concrete throughout the entire process. Direct the casting of the concrete and supervise laborers who use shovels or special tools to spread it. Produce rough concrete surface, using broom. Mold expansion joints and edges, using edging tools, jointers, and straightedge. Clean chipped area, using wire brush, and feel and observe surface to determine if it is rough or uneven. Signal truck driver to position truck to facilitate pouring concrete, and move chute to direct concrete on forms. Apply hardening and sealing compounds to cure surface of concrete, and waterproof or restore surface. Operate power vibrator to compact concrete. Chip, scrape, and grind high spots, ridges, and rough projections to finish concrete, using pneumatic chisels, power grinders, or hand tools. Cut out damaged areas, drill holes for reinforcing rods, and position reinforcing rods to repair concrete, using power saw and drill. Waterproof or restore concrete surfaces, using appropriate compounds. Wet concrete surface, and rub with stone to smooth surface and obtain specified finish. Wet surface to prepare for bonding, fill holes and cracks with grout or slurry, and smooth, using trowel. Fabricate concrete beams, columns, and panels. Install anchor bolts, steel plates, door sills and other fixtures in freshly poured concrete or pattern or stamp the surface to provide a decorative finish. Build wooden molds, and clamp molds around area to be repaired, using hand tools. Cut metal division strips, and press them into terrazzo base so that top edges form desired design or pattern. Push roller over surface to embed chips in surface. Polish surface, using polishing or surfacing machine.
47-2053| Terrazzo Workers and Finishers|Measure designated amounts of ingredients for terrazzo or grout according to standard formulas and specifications, using graduated containers and scales, and load ingredients into portable mixer. Grind surfaces with a power grinder or polish surfaces with polishing or surfacing machines. Cut metal division strips and press them into the terrazzo base for joints or changes of color to form designs or patterns or to help prevent cracks. Blend marble chip mixtures, place into panels, and push a roller over the surface to embed the chips. Modify mixing, grouting, grinding, or cleaning procedures, according to type of installation or material used. Spread, level, or smooth concrete or terrazzo mixtures to form bases or finished surfaces, using rakes, shovels, hand or power trowels, hand or power screeds, or floats. Grind curved surfaces or areas inaccessible to surfacing machine, such as stairways or cabinet tops, with portable hand grinder. Wash polished terrazzo surface, using cleaner and water, and apply sealer and curing agent according to manufacturer's specifications, using brush or sprayer. Position and secure moisture membrane and wire mesh in preparation for pouring base materials for terrazzo installation. Fill slight grinding depressions with matching grout material and hand trowel for a smooth, uniform surface. Clean installation site, mixing and storage areas, tools, machines, and equipment, and store materials and equipment. Sprinkle colored marble or stone chips, powdered steel, or coloring powder over surface to produce prescribed finish. Wet surface to prepare for bonding, fill holes and cracks with grout or slurry, and smooth with a trowel. Mix cement, sand, and water to produce concrete, grout, or slurry, using hoe, trowel, tamper, scraper, or concrete-mixing machine. Chip, scrape, or grind high spots, ridges, or rough projections to finish concrete, using pneumatic chisel, hand chisel, or other hand tools. Mold expansion joints and edges, using edging tools, jointers, or straightedges. Move terrazzo installation materials, tools, machines, or work devices to work areas, manually or using wheelbarrow. Clean chipped area, using wire brush, and feel and observe surface to determine if it is rough or uneven. Repair concrete by cutting out damaged areas, drilling holes for reinforcing rods, and positioning reinforcing rods, using power saw and drill. Precast terrazzo blocks in wooden forms. Wet concrete surface and rub with stone to smooth surface and obtain specified finish. Build wooden molds, clamping molds around areas to be repaired, or setting up frames to the proper depth and alignment.
47-2061| Construction Laborers|Control traffic passing near, in, or around work zones. Clean or prepare construction sites to eliminate possible hazards. Signal equipment operators to facilitate alignment, movement, or adjustment of machinery, equipment, or materials. Read plans, instructions, or specifications to determine work activities. Load, unload, or identify building materials, machinery, or tools, distributing them to the appropriate locations, according to project plans or specifications. Measure, mark, or record openings or distances to layout areas where construction work will be performed. Dig ditches or trenches, backfill excavations, or compact and level earth to grade specifications, using picks, shovels, pneumatic tampers, or rakes. Mix, pour, or spread concrete, using portable cement mixers. Tend pumps, compressors, or generators to provide power for tools, machinery, or equipment or to heat or move materials, such as asphalt. Erect or dismantle scaffolding, shoring, braces, traffic barricades, ramps, or other temporary structures. Provide assistance to craft workers, such as carpenters, plasterers, or masons. Lubricate, clean, or repair machinery, equipment, or tools. Position or dismantle forms for pouring concrete, using saws, hammers, nails, or bolts. Smooth or finish freshly poured cement or concrete, using floats, trowels, screeds, or powered cement finishing tools. Operate jackhammers or drills to break up concrete or pavement. Install sewer, water, or storm drain pipes, using pipe-laying machinery or laser guidance equipment. Operate or maintain air monitoring or other sampling devices in confined or hazardous environments. Mix ingredients to create compounds for covering or cleaning surfaces. Grind, scrape, sand, or polish surfaces such as concrete, marble, terrazzo, or wood flooring, using abrasive tools or machines. Position, join, align, or seal structural components, such as concrete wall sections or pipes. Tend machines that pump concrete, grout, cement, sand, plaster, or stucco through spray guns for application to ceilings or walls. Spray materials such as water, sand, steam, vinyl, paint, or stucco through hoses to clean, coat, or seal surfaces. Apply caulking compounds by hand or caulking guns to protect against entry of water or air. Mop, brush, or spread paints, cleaning solutions, or other compounds over surfaces to clean them or to provide protection. Perform site activities required of green certified construction practices, such as implementing waste management procedures, identifying materials for reuse, or installing erosion or sedimentation control mechanisms.
47-2071| Paving, Surfacing, and Tamping Equipment Operators|Operate machines to spread, smooth, level, or steel-reinforce stone, concrete, or asphalt on road beds. Observe distribution of paving material to adjust machine settings or material flow, and indicate low spots for workers to add material. Control traffic. Light burners or start heating units of machines, and regulate screed temperatures and asphalt flow rates. Inspect, clean, maintain, and repair equipment, using mechanics' hand tools, or report malfunctions to supervisors. Operate tamping machines or manually roll surfaces to compact earth fills, foundation forms, and finished road materials, according to grade specifications. Start machine, engage clutch, and push and move levers to guide machine along forms or guidelines and to control the operation of machine attachments. Fill tanks, hoppers, or machines with paving materials. Set up and tear down equipment. Coordinate truck dumping. Drive machines onto truck trailers, and drive trucks to transport machines and material to and from job sites. Shovel blacktop. Control paving machines to push dump trucks and to maintain a constant flow of asphalt or other material into hoppers or screeds. Operate oil distributors, loaders, chip spreaders, dump trucks, and snow plows. Set up forms and lay out guidelines for curbs, according to written specifications, using string, spray paint, and concrete/water mixes. Place strips of material such as cork, asphalt, or steel into joints, or place rolls of expansion-joint material on machines that automatically insert material. Operate machines that clean or cut expansion joints in concrete or asphalt and that rout out cracks in pavement. Cut or break up pavement and drive guardrail posts, using machines equipped with interchangeable hammers. Install dies, cutters, and extensions to screeds onto machines, using hand tools. Drive and operate curbing machines to extrude concrete or asphalt curbing.
47-2072| Pile-Driver Operators|Move hand and foot levers of hoisting equipment to position piling leads, hoist piling into leads, and position hammers over pilings. Conduct pre-operational checks on equipment to ensure proper functioning. Drive pilings to provide support for buildings or other structures, using heavy equipment with a pile driver head. Move levers and turn valves to activate power hammers, or to raise and lower drophammers that drive piles to required depths. Clean, lubricate, and refill equipment.
47-2073| Operating Engineers and Other Construction Equipment Operators|Learn and follow safety regulations. Take actions to avoid potential hazards or obstructions, such as utility lines, other equipment, other workers, or falling objects. Locate underground services, such as pipes or wires, prior to beginning work. Monitor operations to ensure that health and safety standards are met. Adjust handwheels and depress pedals to control attachments, such as blades, buckets, scrapers, or swing booms. Start engines, move throttles, switches, or levers, or depress pedals to operate machines, such as bulldozers, trench excavators, road graders, or backhoes. Coordinate machine actions with other activities, positioning or moving loads in response to hand or audio signals from crew members. Load and move dirt, rocks, equipment, or other materials, using trucks, crawler tractors, power cranes, shovels, graders, or related equipment. Check fuel supplies at sites to ensure adequate availability. Drive and maneuver equipment equipped with blades in successive passes over working areas to remove topsoil, vegetation, or rocks or to distribute and level earth or terrain. Signal operators to guide movement of tractor-drawn machines. Keep records of material or equipment usage or problems encountered. Align machines, cutterheads, or depth gauge makers with reference stakes and guidelines or ground or position equipment, following hand signals of other workers. Operate tractors or bulldozers to perform such tasks as clearing land, mixing sludge, trimming backfills, or building roadways or parking lots. Repair and maintain equipment, making emergency adjustments or assisting with major repairs as necessary. Connect hydraulic hoses, belts, mechanical linkages, or power takeoff shafts to tractors. Operate equipment to demolish or remove debris or to remove snow from streets, roads, or parking lots. Operate loaders to pull out stumps, rip asphalt or concrete, rough-grade properties, bury refuse, or perform general cleanup. Select and fasten bulldozer blades or other attachments to tractors, using hitches. Push other equipment when extra traction or assistance is required. Test atmosphere for adequate oxygen or explosive conditions when working in confined spaces. Drive tractor-trailer trucks to move equipment from site to site. Talk to clients and study instructions, plans, or diagrams to establish work requirements. Operate compactors, scrapers, or rollers to level, compact, or cover refuse at disposal grounds. Operate road watering, oiling, or rolling equipment, or street sealing equipment, such as chip spreaders. Turn valves to control air or water output of compressors or pumps. Compile cost estimates for jobs. Perform specialized work, using equipment such as pile drivers, dredging rigs, drillers, or concrete pumpers.
47-2081| Drywall and Ceiling Tile Installers|Measure and mark surfaces to lay out work, according to blueprints or drawings, using tape measures, straightedges or squares, and marking devices. Read blueprints or other specifications to determine methods of installation, work procedures, or material or tool requirements. Fit and fasten wallboard or drywall into position on wood or metal frameworks, using glue, nails, or screws. Hang dry lines to wall moldings to guide positioning of main runners. Measure and cut openings in panels or tiles for electrical outlets, windows, vents, plumbing, or other fixtures, using keyhole saws or other cutting tools. Hang drywall panels on metal frameworks of walls and ceilings in offices, schools, or other large buildings, using lifts or hoists to adjust panel heights when necessary. Assemble or install metal framing or decorative trim for windows, doorways, or vents. Coordinate work with drywall finishers who cover the seams between drywall panels. Trim rough edges from wallboard to maintain even joints, using knives. Cut and screw together metal channels to make floor or ceiling frames, according to plans for the location of rooms or hallways. Inspect furrings, mechanical mountings, or masonry surfaces for plumbness and level, using spirit or water levels. Cut fixture or border tiles to size, using keyhole saws, and insert them into surrounding frameworks. Cut metal or wood framing and trim to size, using cutting tools. Install horizontal and vertical metal or wooden studs to frames so that wallboard can be attached to interior walls. Scribe and cut edges of tile to fit walls where wall molding is not specified. Fasten metal or rockboard lath to the structural framework of walls, ceilings, or partitions of buildings, using nails, screws, staples, or wire-ties. Suspend angle iron grids or channel irons from ceilings, using wire. Seal joints between ceiling tiles and walls. Mount tile, using adhesives, or by nailing, screwing, stapling, or wire-tying lath directly to structural frameworks. Install blanket insulation between studs and tack plastic moisture barriers over insulation. Install metal lath where plaster applications will be exposed to weather or water, or for curved or irregular surfaces. Apply cement to backs of tiles and press tiles into place, aligning them with layout marks or joints of previously laid tile. Nail channels or wood furring strips to surfaces to provide mounting for tile. Wash concrete surfaces before mounting tile to increase adhesive qualities of surfaces, using washing soda and zinc sulfate solution.
47-2082| Tapers|Spread sealing compound between boards or panels or over cracks, holes, nail heads, or screw heads, using trowels, broadknives, or spatulas. Press paper tape over joints to embed tape into sealing compound and to seal joints. Apply additional coats to fill in holes and make surfaces smooth. Seal joints between plasterboard or other wallboard to prepare wall surfaces for painting or papering. Spread and smooth cementing material over tape, using trowels or floating machines to blend joints with wall surfaces. Sand or patch nicks or cracks in plasterboard or wallboard. Mix sealing compounds by hand or with portable electric mixers. Work on high ceilings using scaffolding or other tools, such as stilts. Select the correct sealing compound or tape. Countersink nails or screws below surfaces of walls before applying sealing compounds, using hammers or screwdrivers. Remove extra compound after surfaces have been covered sufficiently. Install metal molding at wall corners to secure wallboard. Apply texturizing compounds or primers to walls or ceilings before final finishing, using trowels, brushes, rollers, or spray guns. Check adhesives to ensure that they will work and will remain durable. Sand rough spots of dried cement between applications of compounds. Use mechanical applicators that spread compounds and embed tape in one operation.
47-2111| Electricians|Plan layout and installation of electrical wiring, equipment, or fixtures, based on job specifications and local codes. Connect wires to circuit breakers, transformers, or other components. Test electrical systems or continuity of circuits in electrical wiring, equipment, or fixtures, using testing devices, such as ohmmeters, voltmeters, or oscilloscopes, to ensure compatibility and safety of system. Use a variety of tools or equipment, such as power construction equipment, measuring devices, power tools, and testing equipment, such as oscilloscopes, ammeters, or test lamps. Inspect electrical systems, equipment, or components to identify hazards, defects, or the need for adjustment or repair, and to ensure compliance with codes. Prepare sketches or follow blueprints to determine the location of wiring or equipment and to ensure conformance to building and safety codes. Diagnose malfunctioning systems, apparatus, or components, using test equipment and hand tools to locate the cause of a breakdown and correct the problem. Work from ladders, scaffolds, or roofs to install, maintain, or repair electrical wiring, equipment, or fixtures. Advise management on whether continued operation of equipment could be hazardous. Maintain current electrician's license or identification card to meet governmental regulations. Place conduit, pipes, or tubing, inside designated partitions, walls, or other concealed areas, and pull insulated wires or cables through the conduit to complete circuits between boxes. Direct or train workers to install, maintain, or repair electrical wiring, equipment, or fixtures. Repair or replace wiring, equipment, or fixtures, using hand tools or power tools. Install ground leads and connect power cables to equipment, such as motors. Assemble, install, test, or maintain electrical or electronic wiring, equipment, appliances, apparatus, or fixtures, using hand tools or power tools. Perform business management duties, such as maintaining records or files, preparing reports, or ordering supplies or equipment. Fasten small metal or plastic boxes to walls to house electrical switches or outlets. Construct or fabricate parts, using hand tools, according to specifications. Perform physically demanding tasks, such as digging trenches to lay conduit or moving or lifting heavy objects. Provide assistance during emergencies by operating floodlights or generators, placing flares, or driving needed vehicles. Provide preliminary sketches or cost estimates for materials or services.
47-2121| Glaziers|Fabricate or install metal sashes or moldings for glass installation, using aluminum or steel framing. Determine plumb of walls or ceilings, using plumb lines and levels. Fasten glass panes into wood sashes or frames with clips, points, or moldings, adding weather seals or putty around pane edges to seal joints. Prepare glass for cutting by resting it on rack edges or against cutting tables and brushing thin layer of oil along cutting lines or dipping cutting tools in oil. Cut, fit, install, repair, or replace glass or glass substitutes, such as plastic or aluminum, in building interiors or exteriors or in furniture or other products. Grind or polish glass, smoothing edges when necessary. Measure and mark outlines or patterns on glass to indicate cutting lines. Set glass doors into frames and bolt metal hinges, handles, locks, or other hardware to attach doors to frames and walls. Install pre-assembled metal or wood frameworks for windows or doors to be fitted with glass panels, using hand tools. Read and interpret blueprints or specifications to determine size, shape, color, type, or thickness of glass, location of framing, installation procedures, or staging or scaffolding materials required. Drive trucks to installation sites and unload mirrors, glass equipment, or tools. Measure mirrors and dimensions of areas to be covered to determine work procedures. Move furniture to clear work sites and cover floors or furnishings with drop cloths. Cut, assemble, fit, or attach metal-framed glass enclosures for showers, bathtubs, display cases, skylights, solariums, or other structures. Load and arrange glass or mirrors onto delivery trucks, using suction cups or cranes to lift glass. Pack spaces between moldings and glass with glazing compounds and trim excess material with glazing knives. Cut and remove broken glass prior to installing replacement glass. Score glass with cutters' wheels, breaking off excess glass by hand or with notched tools. Secure mirrors in position, using mastic cement, putty, bolts, or screws. Assemble, erect, or dismantle scaffolds, rigging, or hoisting equipment. Cut and attach mounting strips, metal or wood moldings, rubber gaskets, or metal clips to surfaces in preparation for mirror installation. Confer with customers to determine project requirements or to provide cost estimates. Select the type or color of glass or mirror according to specifications. Operate cranes or hoists with suction cups to lift large, heavy pieces of glass. Create patterns on glass by etching, sandblasting, or painting designs. Assemble and cement sections of stained glass together. Measure, cut, fit, and press anti-glare adhesive film to glass or spray glass with tinting solution to prevent light glare.
47-2131| Insulation Workers, Floor, Ceiling, and Wall|Measure and cut insulation for covering surfaces, using tape measures, handsaws, power saws, knives, or scissors. Fit, wrap, staple, or glue insulating materials to structures or surfaces, using hand tools or wires. Cover and line structures with blown or rolled forms of materials to insulate against cold, heat, or moisture, using saws, knives, rasps, trowels, blowers, or other tools and implements. Distribute insulating materials evenly into small spaces within floors, ceilings, or walls, using blowers and hose attachments, or cement mortars. Move controls, buttons, or levers to start blowers and regulate flow of materials through nozzles. Fill blower hoppers with insulating materials. Cover, seal, or finish insulated surfaces or access holes with plastic covers, canvas strips, sealants, tape, cement or asphalt mastic. Read blueprints and select appropriate insulation, based on space characteristics and the heat retaining or excluding characteristics of the material. Remove old insulation such as asbestos, following safety procedures. Prepare surfaces for insulation application by brushing or spreading on adhesives, cement, or asphalt, or by attaching metal pins to surfaces.
47-2132| Insulation Workers, Mechanical|Measure and cut insulation for covering surfaces, using tape measures, handsaws, knives, and scissors. Fit insulation around obstructions, and shape insulating materials and protective coverings as required. Determine the amounts and types of insulation needed, and methods of installation, based on factors such as location, surface shape, and equipment use. Install sheet metal around insulated pipes with screws to protect the insulation from weather conditions or physical damage. Apply, remove, and repair insulation on industrial equipment, pipes, ductwork, or other mechanical systems such as heat exchangers, tanks, and vessels, to help control noise and maintain temperatures. Select appropriate insulation, such as fiberglass, Styrofoam, or cork, based on the heat retaining or excluding characteristics of the material. Read blueprints and specifications to determine job requirements. Cover, seal, or finish insulated surfaces or access holes with plastic covers, canvas strips, sealants, tape, cement, or asphalt mastic. Prepare surfaces for insulation application by brushing or spreading on adhesives, cement, or asphalt, or by attaching metal pins to surfaces. Remove or seal off old asbestos insulation, following safety procedures.
47-2141| Painters, Construction and Maintenance|Fill cracks, holes, or joints with caulk, putty, plaster, or other fillers, using caulking guns or putty knives. Cover surfaces with dropcloths or masking tape and paper to protect surfaces during painting. Smooth surfaces, using sandpaper, scrapers, brushes, steel wool, or sanding machines. Read work orders or receive instructions from supervisors or homeowners to determine work requirements. Apply primers or sealers to prepare new surfaces, such as bare wood or metal, for finish coats. Apply paint, stain, varnish, enamel, or other finishes to equipment, buildings, bridges, or other structures, using brushes, spray guns, or rollers. Erect scaffolding or swing gates, or set up ladders, to work above ground level. Mix and match colors of paint, stain, or varnish with oil or thinning and drying additives to obtain desired colors and consistencies. Calculate amounts of required materials and estimate costs, based on surface measurements or work orders. Polish final coats to specified finishes. Wash and treat surfaces with oil, turpentine, mildew remover, or other preparations, and sand rough spots to ensure that finishes will adhere properly. Select and purchase tools or finishes for surfaces to be covered, considering durability, ease of handling, methods of application, and customers' wishes. Remove old finishes by stripping, sanding, wire brushing, burning, or using water or abrasive blasting. Remove fixtures such as pictures, door knobs, lamps, or electric switch covers prior to painting. Use special finishing techniques such as sponging, ragging, layering, or faux finishing. Cut stencils and brush or spray lettering or decorations on surfaces. Waterproof buildings, using waterproofers or caulking.
47-2142| Paperhangers|Smooth strips or sections of paper with brushes or rollers to remove wrinkles and bubbles and to smooth joints. Trim rough edges from strips, using straightedges and trimming knives. Trim excess material at ceilings or baseboards, using knives. Check finished wallcoverings for proper alignment, pattern matching, and neatness of seams. Mark vertical guidelines on walls to align strips, using plumb bobs and chalk lines. Cover interior walls and ceilings of rooms with decorative wallpaper or fabric, using hand tools. Apply adhesives to the backs of paper strips, using brushes, or dunk strips of prepasted wallcovering in water, wiping off any excess adhesive. Measure and cut strips from rolls of wallpaper or fabric, using shears or razors. Place strips or sections of paper on surfaces, aligning section edges and patterns. Fill holes, cracks, and other surface imperfections preparatory to covering surfaces. Measure surfaces or review work orders to estimate the quantities of materials needed. Apply sizing to seal surfaces and maximize adhesion of coverings to surfaces. Smooth rough spots on walls and ceilings, using sandpaper. Set up equipment, such as pasteboards and scaffolds. Remove old paper, using water, steam machines, or solvents and scrapers. Apply thinned glue to waterproof porous surfaces, using brushes, rollers, or pasting machines. Mix paste, using paste powder and water, and brush paste onto surfaces. Staple or tack advertising posters onto fences, walls, billboards, or poles. Remove paint, varnish, dirt, and grease from surfaces, using paint remover and water soda solutions. Apply acetic acid to damp plaster to prevent lime from bleeding through paper.
47-2151| Pipelayers|Install or use instruments such as lasers, grade rods, or transit levels. Cut pipes to required lengths. Connect pipe pieces and seal joints, using welding equipment, cement, or glue. Cover pipes with earth or other materials. Install or repair sanitary or stormwater sewer structures or pipe systems. Align and position pipes to prepare them for welding or sealing. Check slopes for conformance to requirements, using levels or lasers. Lay out pipe routes, following written instructions or blueprints and coordinating layouts with supervisors. Operate mechanized equipment, such as pickup trucks, rollers, tandem dump trucks, front-end loaders, or backhoes. Grade or level trench bases, using tamping machines or hand tools. Dig trenches to desired or required depths, by hand or using trenching tools. Tap and drill holes into pipes to introduce auxiliary lines or devices. Locate existing pipes needing repair or replacement, using magnetic or radio indicators. Train or supervise others in laying pipe.
47-2152| Plumbers, Pipefitters, and Steamfitters|Cut, thread, or hammer pipes to specifications, using tools such as saws, cutting torches, pipe threaders, or pipe benders. Lay out full scale drawings of pipe systems, supports, or related equipment, according to blueprints. Assemble or secure pipes, tubes, fittings, or related equipment, according to specifications, by welding, brazing, cementing, soldering, or threading joints. Measure and mark pipes for cutting or threading. Inspect, examine, or test installed systems or pipe lines, using pressure gauge, hydrostatic testing, observation, or other methods. Plan pipe system layout, installation, or repair, according to specifications. Attach pipes to walls, structures, or fixtures, such as radiators or tanks, using brackets, clamps, tools, or welding equipment. Modify, clean, or maintain pipe systems, units, fittings, or related machines or equipment, using hand or power tools. Select pipe sizes, types, or related materials, such as supports, hangers, or hydraulic cylinders, according to specifications. Cut or bore holes in structures, such as bulkheads, decks, walls, or mains, prior to pipe installation, using hand or power tools. Install automatic controls to regulate pipe systems. Shut off steam, water, or other gases or liquids from pipe sections, using valve keys or wrenches. Remove and replace worn components. Inspect work sites for obstructions or holes that could cause structural weakness. Install fixtures, appliances, or equipment designed to reduce water or energy consumption. Install pipe systems to support alternative energy-fueled systems, such as geothermal heating and cooling systems. Install or test gray water systems, such as recycling, treatment, or irrigation systems. Prepare cost estimates for clients. Operate motorized pumps to remove water from flooded manholes, basements, or facility floors.Assemble pipe sections, tubing, or fittings, using couplings, clamps, screws, bolts, cement, plastic solvent, caulking, or soldering, brazing, or welding equipment. Install pipe assemblies, fittings, valves, appliances such as dishwashers or water heaters, or fixtures such as sinks or toilets, using hand or power tools. Keep records of work assignments. Fill pipes or plumbing fixtures with water or air and observe pressure gauges to detect and locate leaks. Direct helpers engaged in pipe cutting, preassembly, or installation of plumbing systems or components. Maintain or repair plumbing by replacing defective washers, replacing or mending broken pipes, or opening clogged drains. Locate and mark the position of pipe installations, connections, passage holes, or fixtures in structures, using measuring instruments such as rulers or levels. Measure, cut, thread, or bend pipe to required angle, using hand or power tools or machines such as pipe cutters, pipe-threading machines, or pipe-bending machines. Review blueprints, building codes, or specifications to determine work details or procedures. Anchor steel supports from ceiling joists to hold pipes in place. Estimate time, material, or labor costs for use in project plans. Install underground storm, sanitary, or water piping systems, extending piping as needed to connect fixtures and plumbing. Inspect structures to assess material or equipment needs, to establish the sequence of pipe installations, or to plan installation around obstructions such as electrical wiring. Install green plumbing equipment, such as faucet flow restrictors, dual-flush or pressure-assisted flush toilets, or tankless hot water heaters. Cut openings in structures to accommodate pipes or pipe fittings, using hand or power tools. Weld small pipes or special piping, using specialized techniques, equipment, or materials, such as computer-assisted welding or microchip fabrication. Install alternative water sources, such as rainwater harvesting systems or graywater reuse systems. Recommend energy or water saving products, such as low-flow faucets or shower heads, water-saving toilets, or high-efficiency hot water heaters.
47-2161| Plasterers and Stucco Masons|Cover surfaces such as windows, doors, or sidewalks to protect from splashing. Clean job sites. Mix mortar and plaster to desired consistency or direct workers who perform mixing. Apply coats of plaster or stucco to walls, ceilings, or partitions of buildings, using trowels, brushes, or spray guns. Set up scaffolds. Determine materials needed to complete the job and place orders accordingly. Apply weatherproof, decorative coverings to exterior surfaces of buildings, such as by troweling or spraying on coats of stucco. Clean and prepare surfaces for applications of plaster, cement, stucco, or similar materials, such as by drywall taping. Create decorative textures in finish coat, using brushes or trowels, sand, pebbles, or stones. Apply insulation to building exteriors by installing prefabricated insulation systems over existing walls or by covering the outer wall with insulation board, reinforcing mesh, and a base coat. Rough the undercoat surface with a scratcher so the finish coat will adhere. Cure freshly plastered surfaces. Install guide wires on exterior surfaces of buildings to indicate thickness of plaster or stucco and nail wire mesh, lath, or similar materials to the outside surface to hold stucco in place. Spray acoustic materials or texture finish over walls or ceilings. Mold or install ornamental plaster pieces, panels, or trim.
47-2171| Reinforcing Iron and Rebar Workers|Determine quantities, sizes, shapes, and locations of reinforcing rods from blueprints, sketches, or oral instructions. Space and fasten together rods in forms according to blueprints, using wire and pliers. Position and secure steel bars, rods, cables, or mesh in concrete forms, using fasteners, rod-bending machines, blowtorches, or hand tools. Cut rods to required lengths, using metal shears, hacksaws, bar cutters, or acetylene torches. Place blocks under rebar to hold the bars off the deck when reinforcing floors. Cut and fit wire mesh or fabric, using hooked rods, and position fabric or mesh in concrete to reinforce concrete. Bend steel rods with hand tools or rodbending machines and weld them with arc-welding equipment.
47-2181| Roofers|Inspect problem roofs to determine the best repair procedures. Remove snow, water, or debris from roofs prior to applying roofing materials. Set up scaffolding to provide safe access to roofs. Estimate materials and labor required to complete roofing jobs. Cement or nail flashing strips of metal or shingle over joints to make them watertight. Install partially overlapping layers of material over roof insulation surfaces, using chalk lines, gauges on shingling hatchets, or lines on shingles. Cut felt, shingles, or strips of flashing to fit angles formed by walls, vents, or intersecting roof surfaces. Apply plastic coatings, membranes, fiberglass, or felt over sloped roofs before applying shingles. Install, repair, or replace single-ply roofing systems, using waterproof sheet materials such as modified plastics, elastomeric, or other asphaltic compositions. Attach roofing paper to roofs in overlapping strips to form bases for other materials. Cover roofs or exterior walls of structures with slate, asphalt, aluminum, wood, gravel, gypsum, or related materials, using brushes, knives, punches, hammers, or other tools. Waterproof or damp-proof walls, floors, roofs, foundations, or basements by painting or spraying surfaces with waterproof coatings or by attaching waterproofing membranes to surfaces. Apply reflective roof coatings, such as special paints or single-ply roofing sheets, to existing roofs to reduce solar heat absorption. Apply alternate layers of hot asphalt or tar and roofing paper to roofs. Install vapor barriers or layers of insulation on flat roofs. Cover exposed nailheads with roofing cement or caulking to prevent water leakage or rust. Smooth rough spots to prepare surfaces for waterproofing, using hammers, chisels, or rubbing bricks. Glaze top layers to make a smooth finish or embed gravel in the bitumen for rough surfaces. Mop or pour hot asphalt or tar onto roof bases. Install attic ventilation systems, such as turbine vents, gable or ridge vents, or conventional or solar-powered exhaust fans. Install skylights on roofs to increase natural light inside structures or to reduce energy costs. Apply gravel or pebbles over top layers of roofs, using rakes or stiff-bristled brooms. Install solar roofing systems that have energy-collecting photovoltaic panels built into roofing membranes, shingles, or tiles. Spray roofs, sidings, or walls to bind, seal, insulate, or soundproof sections of structures, using spray guns, air compressors, or heaters. Attach solar panels to existing roofs, according to specifications and without damaging roofing materials or the structural integrity of buildings. Punch holes in slate, tile, terra cotta, or wooden shingles, using punches and hammers. Apply modular soil- and plant-containing grids over existing roof membranes to create green roofs. Install layers of vegetation-based green roofs, including protective membranes, drainage, aeration, water retention and filter layers, soil substrates, irrigation materials, and plants.
47-2211| Sheet Metal Workers|Convert blueprints into shop drawings to be followed in the construction or assembly of sheet metal products. Determine project requirements, such as scope, assembly sequences, or required methods or materials, using blueprints, drawings, or written or verbal instructions. Lay out, measure, and mark dimensions and reference lines on material such as roofing panels, using calculators, scribes, dividers, squares, or rulers. Fasten seams or joints together with welds, bolts, cement, rivets, solder, caulks, metal drive clips, or bonds to assemble components into products or to repair sheet metal items. Trim, file, grind, deburr, buff, or smooth surfaces, seams, or joints of assembled parts, using hand tools or portable power tools. Fabricate ducts for high efficiency heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems to maximize efficiency of systems. Select gauges or types of sheet metal or nonmetallic material, according to product specifications. Finish parts, using hacksaws or hand, rotary, or squaring shears. Shape metal material over anvils, blocks, or other forms, using hand tools. Fabricate or alter parts at construction sites, using shears, hammers, punches, or drills. Transport prefabricated parts to construction sites for assembly and installation. Install assemblies, such as flashing, pipes, tubes, heating and air conditioning ducts, furnace casings, rain gutters, or downspouts in supportive frameworks. Hire, train, or supervise new employees or apprentices. Maintain equipment, making repairs or modifications when necessary. Develop or lay out patterns, using computerized metalworking equipment. Maneuver completed roofing units into position for installation. Inspect individual parts, assemblies, or installations, using measuring instruments, such as calipers, scales, or micrometers. Verify that heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems are designed, installed, and calibrated in accordance with green certification standards, such as those of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). Secure metal roof panels in place by interlocking and fastening grooved panel edges. Perform building commissioning activities by completing mechanical inspections of a building's water, lighting, or heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems. Fasten roof panel edges or machine-made moldings to structures by nailing or welding. Perform sheet metal work necessary for solar panel installations.
47-2221| Structural Iron and Steel Workers|Read specifications or blueprints to determine the locations, quantities, or sizes of materials required. Connect columns, beams, and girders with bolts, following blueprints and instructions from supervisors. Bolt aligned structural steel members in position for permanent riveting, bolting, or welding into place. Fasten structural steel members to hoist cables, using chains, cables, or rope. Hoist steel beams, girders, or columns into place, using cranes or signaling hoisting equipment operators to lift and position structural steel members. Verify vertical and horizontal alignment of structural steel members, using plumb bobs, laser equipment, transits, or levels. Cut, bend, or weld steel pieces, using metal shears, torches, or welding equipment. Erect metal or precast concrete components for structures, such as buildings, bridges, dams, towers, storage tanks, fences, or highway guard rails. Force structural steel members into final positions, using turnbuckles, crowbars, jacks, or hand tools. Pull, push, or pry structural steel members into approximate positions for bolting into place. Unload and position prefabricated steel units for hoisting as needed. Drive drift pins through rivet holes to align rivet holes in structural steel members with corresponding holes in previously placed members. Assemble hoisting equipment or rigging, such as cables, pulleys, or hooks, to move heavy equipment or materials. Fabricate metal parts, such as steel frames, columns, beams, or girders, according to blueprints or instructions from supervisors. Dismantle structures or equipment. Ride on girders or other structural steel members to position them or use rope to guide them into position. Hold rivets while riveters use air hammers to form heads on rivets. Insert sealing strips, wiring, insulating material, ladders, flanges, gauges, or valves, depending on types of structures being assembled.
47-2231| Solar Photovoltaic Installers|Install photovoltaic (PV) systems in accordance with codes and standards using drawings, schematics, and instructions. Assemble solar modules, panels, or support structures, as specified. Apply weather sealing to array, building, or support mechanisms. Determine appropriate sizes, ratings, and locations for all system overcurrent devices, disconnect devices, grounding equipment, and surge suppression equipment. Install module array interconnect wiring, implementing measures to disable arrays during installation. Identify methods for laying out, orienting, and mounting modules or arrays to ensure efficient installation, electrical configuration, or system maintenance. Identify electrical, environmental, and safety hazards associated with photovoltaic (PV) installations. Examine designs to determine current requirements for all parts of the photovoltaic (PV) system electrical circuit. Check electrical installation for proper wiring, polarity, grounding, or integrity of terminations. Test operating voltages to ensure operation within acceptable limits for power conditioning equipment, such as inverters and controllers. Identify and resolve any deficiencies in photovoltaic (PV) system installation or materials. Program, adjust, or configure inverters and controls for desired set points and operating modes. Identify installation locations with proper orientation, area, solar access, or structural integrity for photovoltaic (PV) arrays. Visually inspect and test photovoltaic (PV) modules or systems. Install required labels on solar system components and hardware. Determine photovoltaic (PV) system designs or configurations based on factors such as customer needs, expectations, and site conditions. Determine materials, equipment, and installation sequences necessary to maximize installation efficiency. Determine connection interfaces for additional subpanels or for connecting photovoltaic (PV) systems with utility services or other power generation sources. Perform routine photovoltaic (PV) system maintenance on modules, arrays, batteries, power conditioning equipment, safety systems, structural systems, weather sealing, or balance of systems equipment. Install active solar systems, including solar collectors, concentrators, pumps, or fans. Activate photovoltaic (PV) systems to verify system functionality and conformity to performance expectations. Demonstrate system functionality and performance, including start-up, shut-down, normal operation, and emergency or bypass operations. Measure and analyze system performance and operating parameters to assess operating condition of systems or equipment. Compile or maintain records of system operation, performance, and maintenance. Diagram layouts and locations for photovoltaic (PV) arrays and equipment, including existing building or site features. Select mechanical designs, installation equipment, or installation plans that conform to environmental, architectural, structural, site, and code requirements.
47-3011|Helpers--Brickmasons, Blockmasons, Stonemasons, and Tile and Marble Setters|Mix mortar, plaster, and grout, manually or using machines, according to standard formulas. Erect scaffolding or other installation structures. Cut materials to specified sizes for installation, using power saws or tile cutters. Modify material moving, mixing, grouting, grinding, polishing, or cleaning procedures, according to installation or material requirements. Transport materials, tools, or machines to installation sites, manually or using conveyance equipment. Provide assistance in the preparation, installation, repair, or rebuilding of tile, brick, or stone surfaces. Locate and supply materials to masons for installation, following drawings or numbered sequences. Arrange or store materials, machines, tools, or equipment. Clean installation surfaces, equipment, tools, work sites, or storage areas, using water, chemical solutions, oxygen lances, or polishing machines. Move or position materials such as marble slabs, using cranes, hoists, or dollies. Remove excess grout or residue from tile or brick joints, using sponges or trowels. Apply grout between joints of bricks or tiles, using grouting trowels. Apply caulk, sealants, or other agents to installed surfaces. Remove damaged tile, brick, or mortar, and clean or prepare surfaces, using pliers, hammers, chisels, drills, wire brushes, or metal wire anchors. Correct surface imperfections or fill chipped, cracked, or broken bricks or tiles, using fillers, adhesives, or grouting materials.
47-3012|Helpers--Carpenters|Clean work areas, machines, or equipment, to maintain a clean and safe job site. Fasten timbers or lumber with glue, screws, pegs, or nails and install hardware. Perform tie spacing layout and measure, mark, drill or cut. Select tools, equipment, or materials from storage and transport items to work site. Drill holes in timbers or lumber. Cut timbers, lumber, or paneling to specified dimensions. Position and hold timbers, lumber, or paneling in place for fastening or cutting. Align, straighten, plumb, or square forms for installation. Hold plumb bobs, sighting rods, or other equipment to aid in establishing reference points and lines. Erect scaffolding, shoring, or braces. Construct forms and assist in raising them to the required elevation. Install handrails under the direction of a carpenter. Glue and clamp edges or joints of assembled parts. Smooth or sand surfaces to remove ridges, tool marks, glue, or caulking. Secure stakes to grids for constructions of footings, nail scabs to footing forms, and vibrate and float concrete. Cut and install insulating or sound-absorbing material. Cut tile or linoleum to fit and spread adhesives on flooring for installation. Cover surfaces with laminated plastic covering material.
47-3013|Helpers--Electricians|Measure, cut, and bend wire and conduit, using measuring instruments and hand tools. Trace out short circuits in wiring, using test meter. Strip insulation from wire ends, using wire stripping pliers, and attach wires to terminals for subsequent soldering. Examine electrical units for loose connections and broken insulation and tighten connections, using hand tools. Construct controllers and panels, using power drills, drill presses, taps, saws and punches. Drill holes and pull or push wiring through openings, using hand and power tools. Clean work area and wash parts. Maintain tools, vehicles, and equipment and keep parts and supplies in order. Transport tools, materials, equipment, and supplies to work site by hand, handtruck, or heavy, motorized truck. Install copper-clad ground rods, using a manual post driver. Thread conduit ends, connect couplings, and fabricate and secure conduit support brackets, using hand tools. Disassemble defective electrical equipment, replace defective or worn parts, and reassemble equipment, using hand tools. Erect electrical system components and barricades, and rig scaffolds, hoists, and shoring. Perform semi-skilled and unskilled laboring duties related to the installation, maintenance and repair of a wide variety of electrical systems and equipment. Dig trenches or holes for installation of conduit or supports. Raise, lower, or position equipment, tools, and materials, using hoist, hand line, or block and tackle. Break up concrete, using airhammer, to facilitate installation, construction, or repair of equipment. Requisition materials, using warehouse requisition or release forms. String transmission lines or cables through ducts or conduits, under the ground, through equipment, or to towers. Solder electrical connections, using soldering iron. Trim trees and clear undergrowth along right-of-way. Bolt component parts together to form tower assemblies, using hand tools. Operate cutting torches and welding equipment, while working with conduit and metal components to construct devices associated with electrical functions.
47-3014|Helpers--Painters, Paperhangers, Plasterers, and Stucco Masons|Clean work areas and equipment. Perform support duties to assist painters, paperhangers, plasterers, or masons. Apply protective coverings, such as masking tape, to articles or areas that could be damaged or stained by work processes. Erect scaffolding. Fill cracks or breaks in surfaces of plaster articles or areas with putty or epoxy compounds. Supply or hold tools and materials. Smooth surfaces of articles to be painted, using sanding and buffing tools and equipment. Mix plaster, and carry plaster to plasterers. Place articles to be stripped into stripping tanks.
47-3015|Helpers--Pipelayers, Plumbers, Pipefitters, and Steamfitters|Measure, cut, thread and assemble new pipe, placing the assembled pipe in hangers or other supports. Cut or drill holes in walls or floors to accommodate the passage of pipes. Perform rough-ins, repair and replace fixtures and water heaters, and locate, repair, or remove leaking or broken pipes. Assist pipe fitters in the layout, assembly, and installation of piping for air, ammonia, gas, and water systems. Cut pipe and lift up to fitters. Fit or assist in fitting valves, couplings, or assemblies to tanks, pumps, or systems, using hand tools. Requisition tools and equipment, select type and size of pipe, and collect and transport materials and equipment to work site. Mount brackets and hangers on walls and ceilings to hold pipes, and set sleeves or inserts to provide support for pipes. Excavate and grade ditches, and lay and join pipe for water and sewer service. Disassemble and remove damaged or worn pipe. Clean shop, work area, and machines, using solvent and rags. Install gas burners to convert furnaces from wood, coal, or oil. Fill pipes with sand or resin to prevent distortion, and hold pipes during bending and installation. Immerse pipe in chemical solution to remove dirt, oil, and scale. Clean and renew steam traps.
47-3016|Helpers--Roofers|Check to ensure that completed roofs are watertight. Sweep and clean roofs to prepare them for the application of new roofing materials. Locate worn or torn areas in roofs. Clean work areas and equipment. Maintain tools and equipment. Cover roofs with layers of roofing felt or asphalt strips before installing tile, slate, or composition materials. Remove old roofing materials. Unload materials and tools from work trucks, and unroll roofing as directed. Set ladders, scaffolds, and hoists in place for taking supplies to roofs. Place tiles, nail them to roof boards, and cover nailheads with roofing cement. Provide assistance to skilled roofers installing and repairing roofs, flashings, and surfaces. Attach roofing paper and composition shingles, using nails. Perform emergency leak repairs and general maintenance for a variety of roof types. Attach sheets of metal to roof boards or building frameworks when installing metal roofs. Hoist tar and roofing materials to roofs, using ropes and pulleys, or carry materials up ladders. Apply shingles, gravel, or asphalt over the top layer of tar to protect the roofing material. Chop tar into small pieces, and heat chopped tar in kettles. Clear drains and downspouts and clean gutters.
47-4011| Construction and Building Inspectors|Inspect bridges, dams, highways, buildings, wiring, plumbing, electrical circuits, sewers, heating systems, or foundations during and after construction for structural quality, general safety, or conformance to specifications and codes. Inspect facilities or installations to determine their environmental impact. Monitor installation of plumbing, wiring, equipment, or appliances to ensure that installation is performed properly and is in compliance with applicable regulations. Measure dimensions and verify level, alignment, or elevation of structures or fixtures to ensure compliance to building plans and codes. Maintain daily logs and supplement inspection records with photographs. Review and interpret plans, blueprints, site layouts, specifications, or construction methods to ensure compliance to legal requirements and safety regulations. Evaluate project details to ensure adherence to environmental regulations. Conduct inspections, using survey instruments, metering devices, tape measures, or test equipment. Inspect and monitor construction sites to ensure adherence to safety standards, building codes, or specifications. Monitor construction activities to ensure that environmental regulations are not violated. Confer with owners, violators, or authorities to explain regulations or recommend remedial actions. Train, direct, or supervise other construction inspectors. Issue permits for construction, relocation, demolition, or occupancy. Approve building plans that meet required specifications. Conduct environmental hazard inspections to identify or quantify problems such as asbestos, poor air quality, water contamination, or other environmental hazards. Examine lifting or conveying devices, such as elevators, escalators, moving sidewalks, hoists, inclined railways, ski lifts, or amusement rides to ensure safety and proper functioning. Sample and test air to identify gasses, such as bromine, ozone, or sulfur dioxide, or particulates, such as mold, dust, or allergens.
47-4021| Elevator Installers and Repairers|Assemble, install, repair, and maintain elevators, escalators, moving sidewalks, and dumbwaiters, using hand and power tools, and testing devices such as test lamps, ammeters, and voltmeters. Test newly installed equipment to ensure that it meets specifications, such as stopping at floors for set amounts of time. Locate malfunctions in brakes, motors, switches, and signal and control systems, using test equipment. Check that safety regulations and building codes are met, and complete service reports verifying conformance to standards. Connect electrical wiring to control panels and electric motors. Adjust safety controls, counterweights, door mechanisms, and components such as valves, ratchets, seals, and brake linings. Read and interpret blueprints to determine the layout of system components, frameworks, and foundations, and to select installation equipment. Inspect wiring connections, control panel hookups, door installations, and alignments and clearances of cars and hoistways to ensure that equipment will operate properly. Disassemble defective units, and repair or replace parts such as locks, gears, cables, and electric wiring. Maintain log books that detail all repairs and checks performed. Participate in additional training to keep skills up to date. Attach guide shoes and rollers to minimize the lateral motion of cars as they travel through shafts. Connect car frames to counterweights, using steel cables. Bolt or weld steel rails to the walls of shafts to guide elevators, working from scaffolding or platforms. Assemble elevator cars, installing each car's platform, walls, and doors. Install outer doors and door frames at elevator entrances on each floor of a structure. Install electrical wires and controls by attaching conduit along shaft walls from floor to floor and pulling plastic-covered wires through the conduit. Cut prefabricated sections of framework, rails, and other components to specified dimensions. Operate elevators to determine power demands, and test power consumption to detect overload factors. Assemble electrically powered stairs, steel frameworks, and tracks, and install associated motors and electrical wiring.
47-4031| Fence Erectors|Establish the location for a fence, and gather information needed to ensure that there are no electric cables or water lines in the area. Align posts, using lines or by sighting, and verify vertical alignment of posts, using plumb bobs or spirit levels. Measure and lay out fence lines and mark posthole positions, following instructions, drawings, or specifications. Dig postholes, using spades, posthole diggers, or power-driven augers. Set metal or wooden posts in upright positions in postholes. Discuss fencing needs with customers, and estimate and quote prices. Mix and pour concrete around bases of posts, or tamp soil into postholes to embed posts. Make rails for fences, by sawing lumber or by cutting metal tubing to required lengths. Nail top and bottom rails to fence posts, or insert them in slots on posts. Stretch wire, wire mesh, or chain link fencing between posts, and attach fencing to frames. Attach fence rail supports to posts, using hammers and pliers. Assemble gates, and fasten gates into position, using hand tools. Complete top fence rails of metal fences by connecting tube sections, using metal sleeves. Insert metal tubing through rail supports. Attach rails or tension wire along bottoms of posts to form fencing frames. Nail pointed slats to rails to construct picket fences. Construct and repair barriers, retaining walls, trellises, and other types of fences, walls, and gates. Weld metal parts together, using portable gas welding equipment. Erect alternate panel, basket weave, and louvered fences.
47-4041| Hazardous Materials Removal Workers|Build containment areas prior to beginning abatement or decontamination work. Remove asbestos or lead from surfaces, using hand or power tools such as scrapers, vacuums, or high-pressure sprayers. Identify asbestos, lead, or other hazardous materials to be removed, using monitoring devices. Prepare hazardous material for removal or storage. Comply with prescribed safety procedures or federal laws regulating waste disposal methods. Load or unload materials into containers or onto trucks, using hoists or forklifts. Clean contaminated equipment or areas for re-use, using detergents or solvents, sandblasters, filter pumps, or steam cleaners. Remove or limit contamination following emergencies involving hazardous substances. Clean mold-contaminated sites by removing damaged porous materials or thoroughly cleaning all contaminated nonporous materials. Operate machines or equipment to remove, package, store, or transport loads of waste materials. Record numbers of containers stored at disposal sites, specifying amounts or types of equipment or waste disposed. Sort specialized hazardous waste at landfills or disposal centers, following proper disposal procedures. Operate cranes to move or load baskets, casks, or canisters. Drive trucks or other heavy equipment to convey contaminated waste to designated sea or ground locations. Identify or separate waste products or materials for recycling or reuse. Upload baskets of irradiated elements onto machines that insert fuel elements into canisters and secure lids. Process e-waste, such as computer components containing lead or mercury. Organize or track the locations of hazardous items in landfills. Mix or pour concrete into forms to encase waste material for disposal. Apply bioremediation techniques to hazardous wastes to allow naturally occurring bacteria to break down toxic substances. Package, store, or move irradiated fuel elements in the underwater storage basins of nuclear reactor plants, using machines or equipment.
47-4051| Highway Maintenance Workers|Flag motorists to warn them of obstacles or repair work ahead. Set out signs and cones around work areas to divert traffic. Perform preventative maintenance on vehicles and heavy equipment. Drive heavy equipment and vehicles with adjustable attachments to sweep debris from paved surfaces, mow grass and weeds, remove snow and ice, and spread salt and sand. Drive trucks to transport crews and equipment to work sites. Haul and spread sand, gravel, and clay to fill washouts and repair road shoulders. Dump, spread, and tamp asphalt, using pneumatic tampers, to repair joints and patch broken pavement. Clean and clear debris from culverts, catch basins, drop inlets, ditches, and other drain structures. Remove litter and debris from roadways, including debris from rock and mud slides. Erect, install, or repair guardrails, road shoulders, berms, highway markers, warning signals, and highway lighting, using hand tools and power tools. Inspect, clean, and repair drainage systems, bridges, tunnels, and other structures. Perform roadside landscaping work, such as clearing weeds and brush, and planting and trimming trees. Inspect markers to verify accurate installation. Paint traffic control lines and place pavement traffic messages, by hand or using machines. Apply oil to road surfaces, using sprayers. Measure and mark locations for installation of markers, using tape, string, or chalk. Place and remove snow fences used to prevent the accumulation of drifting snow on highways. Apply poisons along roadsides and in animal burrows to eliminate unwanted roadside vegetation and rodents.
47-4061| Rail-Track Laying and Maintenance Equipment Operators|Patrol assigned track sections so that damaged or broken track can be located and reported. Repair or adjust track switches, using wrenches and replacement parts. Weld sections of track together, such as switch points and frogs. Observe leveling indicator arms to verify levelness and alignment of tracks. Operate single- or multiple-head spike driving machines to drive spikes into ties and secure rails. Operate track-wrench machines to tighten or loosen bolts at joints that hold ends of rails together. Cut rails to specified lengths, using rail saws. Lubricate machines, change oil, or fill hydraulic reservoirs to specified levels. Drill holes through rails, tie plates, or fishplates for insertion of bolts or spikes, using power drills. Clean tracks or clear ice or snow from tracks or switch boxes. Clean, grade, or level ballast on railroad tracks. Raise rails, using hydraulic jacks, to allow for tie removal and replacement. Adjust controls of machines that spread, shape, raise, level, or align track, according to specifications. Dress and reshape worn or damaged railroad switch points or frogs, using portable power grinders. Clean or make minor repairs to machines or equipment. Grind ends of new or worn rails to attain smooth joints, using portable grinders. Operate single- or multiple-head spike pullers to pull old spikes from ties. String and attach wire-guidelines machine to rails so that tracks or rails can be aligned or leveled. Engage mechanisms that lay tracks or rails to specified gauges. Drive graders, tamping machines, brooms, or ballast spreading machines to redistribute gravel or ballast between rails. Drive vehicles that automatically move and lay tracks or rails over sections of track to be constructed, repaired, or maintained. Turn wheels of machines, using lever controls, to adjust guidelines for track alignments or grades, following specifications. Push controls to close grasping devices on track or rail sections so that they can be raised or moved. Operate tie-adzing machines to cut ties and permit insertion of fishplates that hold rails. Paint railroad signs, such as speed limits or gate-crossing warnings. Spray ties, fishplates, or joints with oil to protect them from weathering.
47-4071| Septic Tank Servicers and Sewer Pipe Cleaners|Drive trucks to transport crews, materials, and equipment. Communicate with supervisors and other workers, using equipment such as wireless phones, pagers, or radio telephones. Prepare and keep records of actions taken, including maintenance and repair work. Operate sewer cleaning equipment, including power rodders, high-velocity water jets, sewer flushers, bucket machines, wayne balls, and vac-alls. Ensure that repaired sewer line joints are tightly sealed before backfilling begins. Withdraw cables from pipes and examine them for evidence of mud, roots, grease, and other deposits indicating broken or clogged sewer lines. Install rotary knives on flexible cables mounted on machine reels, according to the diameters of pipes to be cleaned. Measure excavation sites, using plumbers' snakes, tapelines, or lengths of cutting heads within sewers, and mark areas for digging. Locate problems, using specially designed equipment, and mark where digging must occur to reach damaged tanks or pipes. Clean and repair septic tanks, sewer lines, or related structures such as manholes, culverts, and catch basins. Start machines to feed revolving cables or rods into openings, stopping machines and changing knives to conform to pipe sizes. Service, adjust, and make minor repairs to equipment, machines, and attachments. Inspect manholes to locate sewer line stoppages. Cut damaged sections of pipe with cutters, remove broken sections from ditches, and replace pipe sections, using pipe sleeves. Dig out sewer lines manually, using shovels. Break asphalt and other pavement so that pipes can be accessed, using airhammers, picks, and shovels. Cover repaired pipes with dirt, and pack backfilled excavations, using air and gasoline tampers. Requisition or order tools and equipment. Rotate cleaning rods manually, using turning pins. Clean and disinfect domestic basements and other areas flooded by sewer stoppages. Tap mainline sewers to install sewer saddles. Update sewer maps and manhole charts.
47-4091| Segmental Pavers|Prepare base for installation by removing unstable or unsuitable materials, compacting and grading the soil, draining or stabilizing weak or saturated soils and taking measures to prevent water penetration and migration of bedding sand. Supply and place base materials, edge restraints, bedding sand and jointing sand. Discuss the design with the client. Set pavers, aligning and spacing them correctly. Sweep sand into the joints and compact pavement until the joints are full. Screed sand level to an even thickness, and recheck sand exposed to elements, raking and rescreeding if necessary. Cut paving stones to size and for edges, using a splitter and a masonry saw. Compact bedding sand and pavers to finish the paved area, using a plate compactor. Design paver installation layout pattern and create markings for directional references of joints and stringlines. Sweep sand from the surface prior to opening to traffic. Resurface an outside area with cobblestones, terracotta tiles, concrete or other materials. Cement the edges of the paved area.
47-5011| Derrick Operators, Oil and Gas|Inspect derricks, or order their inspection, prior to being raised or lowered. Inspect derricks for flaws, and clean and oil derricks to maintain proper working conditions. Control the viscosity and weight of the drilling fluid. Repair pumps, mud tanks, and related equipment. Set and bolt crown blocks to posts at tops of derricks. Listen to mud pumps and check regularly for vibration and other problems to ensure that rig pumps and drilling mud systems are working properly. Start pumps that circulate mud through drill pipes and boreholes to cool drill bits and flush out drill cuttings. Position and align derrick elements, using harnesses and platform climbing devices. Supervise crew members, and provide assistance in training them. Guide lengths of pipe into and out of elevators. Prepare mud reports, and instruct crews about the handling of any chemical additives. Clamp holding fixtures on ends of hoisting cables. Weigh clay, and mix with water and chemicals to make drilling mud, using portable mixers. String cables through pulleys and blocks. Steady pipes during connection to or disconnection from drill or casing strings.
47-5012| Rotary Drill Operators, Oil and Gas|Train crews, and introduce procedures to make drill work more safe and effective. Observe pressure gauge and move throttles and levers to control the speed of rotary tables, and to regulate pressure of tools at bottoms of boreholes. Count sections of drill rod to determine depths of boreholes. Push levers and brake pedals to control gasoline, diesel, electric, or steam draw works that lower and raise drill pipes and casings in and out of wells. Connect sections of drill pipe, using hand tools and powered wrenches and tongs. Maintain records of footage drilled, location and nature of strata penetrated, materials and tools used, services rendered, and time required. Maintain and adjust machinery to ensure proper performance. Start and examine operation of slush pumps to ensure circulation and consistency of drilling fluid or mud in well. Locate and recover lost or broken bits, casings, and drill pipes from wells, using special tools. Weigh clay, and mix with water and chemicals to make drilling mud. Direct rig crews in drilling and other activities, such as setting up rigs and completing or servicing wells. Monitor progress of drilling operations, and select and change drill bits according to the nature of strata, using hand tools. Repair or replace defective parts of machinery, such as rotary drill rigs, water trucks, air compressors, and pumps, using hand tools. Clean and oil pulleys, blocks, and cables. Bolt together pump and engine parts, and connect tanks and flow lines. Remove core samples during drilling to determine the nature of the strata being drilled. Cap wells with packers, or turn valves, to regulate outflow of oil from wells. Line drilled holes with pipes, and install all necessary hardware, to prepare new wells. Position and prepare truck-mounted derricks at drilling areas specified on field maps. Plug observation wells, and restore sites. Lower and explode charges in boreholes to start flow of oil from wells.
47-5013| Service Unit Operators, Oil, Gas, and Mining|Maintain and perform safety inspections on equipment and tools. Operate controls that raise derricks or level rigs. Listen to engines, rotary chains, or other equipment to detect faulty operations or unusual well conditions. Prepare reports of services rendered, tools used, or time required, for billing purposes. Install pressure-control devices onto wellheads. Confer with others to gather information regarding pipe or tool sizes or borehole conditions in wells. Operate pumps that circulate water, oil, or other fluids through wells to remove sand or other materials obstructing the free flow of oil. Drive truck-mounted units to well sites. Interpret instrument readings to ascertain the depth of obstruction. Thread cables through derrick pulleys, using hand tools. Select fishing methods or tools for removing obstacles such as liners, broken casing, screens, or drill pipe. Close and seal wells no longer in use. Direct drilling crews performing activities such as assembling and connecting pipe, applying weights to drill pipes, or drilling around lodged obstacles. Apply green technologies or techniques such as the use of coiled tubing, slim-hole drilling, horizontal drilling, hydraulic fracturing, or gas lift systems. Operate specialized equipment to remove obstructions by backing-off or severing pipes by chemical or explosive action. Perforate well casings or sidewalls of boreholes with explosive charges. Examine unserviceable wells to determine actions to be taken to improve well conditions. Monitor sound wave generating or detecting mechanisms to determine well fluid levels. Insert detection instruments into wells with obstructions.
47-5021| Earth Drillers, Except Oil and Gas|Regulate air pressure, rotary speed, and downward pressure, according to the type of rock or concrete being drilled. Verify depths and alignments of boring positions. Monitor drilling operations, checking gauges and listening to equipment to assess drilling conditions and to determine the need to adjust drilling or alter equipment. Start, stop, and control drilling speed of machines and insertion of casings into holes. Select the appropriate drill for the job, using knowledge of rock or soil conditions. Operate controls to stabilize machines and to position and align drills. Select and attach drill bits and drill rods, adding more rods as hole depths increase, and changing drill bits as needed. Drill or bore holes in rock for blasting, grouting, anchoring, or building foundations. Operate machines to flush earth cuttings or to blow dust from holes. Drive or guide truck-mounted equipment into position, level and stabilize rigs, and extend telescoping derricks. Perform routine maintenance and upgrade work on machines and equipment, such as replacing parts, building up drill bits, and lubricating machinery. Drive trucks, tractors, or truck-mounted drills to and from work sites. Record drilling progress and geological data. Retrieve lost equipment from bore holes, using retrieval tools and equipment. Assemble and position machines, augers, casing pipes, and other equipment, using hand and power tools. Pour water into wells, or pump water or slush into wells to cool drill bits and to remove drillings. Operate water-well drilling rigs and other equipment to drill, bore, and dig for water wells or for environmental assessment purposes. Perform pumping tests to assess well performance. Document geological formations encountered during work. Withdraw drill rods from holes, and extract core samples. Retract augers to force discharge dirt from holes. Place and install screens, casings, pumps, and other well fixtures to develop wells. Disinfect, reconstruct, and redevelop contaminated wells and water pumping systems, and clean and disinfect new wells in preparation for use. Review client requirements and proposed locations for drilling operations to determine feasibility, and to determine cost estimates. Observe electronic graph recorders and flow meters that monitor the water used to flush debris from holes. Signal crane operators to move equipment. Inspect core samples to determine nature of strata, or take samples to laboratories for analysis. Fabricate well casings.
47-5031| Explosives Workers, Ordnance Handling Experts, and Blasters|Examine blast areas to determine amounts and kinds of explosive charges needed and to ensure that safety laws are observed. Tie specified lengths of delaying fuses into patterns in order to time sequences of explosions. Place safety cones around blast areas to alert other workers of danger zones, and signal workers as necessary to ensure that they clear blast sites prior to explosions. Place explosive charges in holes or other spots; then detonate explosives to demolish structures or to loosen, remove, or displace earth, rock, or other materials. Insert, pack, and pour explosives, such as dynamite, ammonium nitrate, black powder, or slurries into blast holes; then shovel drill cuttings, admit water into boreholes, and tamp material to compact charges. Mark patterns, locations, and depths of charge holes for drilling, and issue drilling instructions. Compile and keep gun and explosives records in compliance with local and federal laws. Measure depths of drilled blast holes, using weighted tape measures. Connect electrical wire to primers, and cover charges or fill blast holes with clay, drill chips, sand, or other material. Lay primacord between rows of charged blast holes, and tie cord into main lines to form blast patterns. Assemble and position equipment, explosives, and blasting caps in holes at specified depths, or load perforating guns or torpedoes with explosives. Verify detonation of charges by observing control panels, or by listening for the sounds of blasts. Move and store inventories of explosives, loaded perforating guns, and other materials, according to established safety procedures. Light fuses, drop detonating devices into wells or boreholes, or activate firing devices with plungers, dials, or buttons, in order to set off single or multiple blasts. Drive trucks to transport explosives and blasting equipment to blasting sites. Cut specified lengths of primacord and attach primers to cord ends. Maintain inventory levels, ordering new supplies as necessary. Set up and operate equipment such as hoists, jackhammers, or drills, in order to bore charge holes. Repair and service blasting, shooting, and automotive equipment, and electrical wiring and instruments, using hand tools. Set up and operate short-wave radio or field telephone equipment to transmit and receive blast information. Insert waterproof sealers, bullets, and/or powder charges into guns, and screw gun ports back into place. Clean, gauge, and lubricate gun ports. Connect gun chambers to electric detonating devices, and operate controls at panelboards, in order to detonate charges in guns or to ignite chemical charges. Lower perforating guns into wells, using hoists; then use measuring devices and instrument panels to position guns in correct positions for taking samples. Insert powder charges into chambers of sidewall sample-taking cylinders, and assemble cylinders, using special wrenches. Obtain samples of earth from sidewalls of well boreholes, using electrically exploding devices. Signal hoist operators to lower torpedoes or sample-taking guns into wells and to raise equipment for sampling from blast holes after detonation. Observe odometers, weight indicators, and instrument panels in trucks in order to position guns at predetermined points in wells.
47-5041| Continuous Mining Machine Operators|Operate mining machines to gather coal and convey it to floors or shuttle cars. Determine locations, boundaries, and depths of holes or channels to be cut. Reposition machines to make additional holes or cuts. Drive machines into position at working faces. Move controls to start and regulate movement of conveyors and to start and position drill cutters or torches. Observe and listen to equipment operation to detect binding or stoppage of tools or other equipment malfunctions. Repair, oil, and adjust machines, and change cutting teeth, using wrenches. Move levers to raise and lower hydraulic safety bars supporting roofs above machines until other workers complete framing. Install casings to prevent cave-ins. Guide and assist crews laying track and resetting supports and blocking.
47-5042| Mine Cutting and Channeling Machine Operators|Position jacks, timbers, or roof supports, and install casings, to prevent cave-ins. Reposition machines and move controls to make additional holes or cuts. Cut entries between rooms and haulage ways. Observe indicator lights and gauges, and listen to machine operation to detect binding or stoppage of tools or other equipment problems. Replace worn or broken tools and machine bits and parts, using wrenches, pry bars, and other hand tools, and lubricate machines, using grease guns. Press buttons to activate conveyor belts, and push or pull chain handles to regulate conveyor movement so that material can be moved or loaded into dinkey cars or dump trucks. Move planer levers to control and adjust the movement of equipment, the speed, height, and depth of cuts, and to rotate swivel cutting booms. Cut slots along working faces of coal, salt, or other non-metal deposits to facilitate blasting, by moving levers to start the machine, and to control the vertical reciprocating drills. Signal that machine plow blades are properly positioned, using electronic buzzers or two-way radios. Drive mobile, truck-mounted, or track-mounted drilling or cutting machine in mines and quarries or on construction sites. Move controls to start and position drill cutters or torches and advance tools into mines or quarry faces to complete horizontal or vertical cuts. Advance plow blades through coal strata by remote control, according to electronic or radio signals from the tailer. Determine locations, boundaries, and depths of holes or channels to be cut. Signal crew members to adjust the speed of equipment to the rate of installation of roof supports, and to adjust the speed of conveyors to the volume of coal. Remove debris such as loose shale from channels and planer travel areas. Charge and set off explosives in blasting holes. Signal truck drivers to position their vehicles for receiving shale from planer hoppers. Monitor movement of shale along conveyors from hoppers to trucks or railcars. Guide and assist crews in laying track for machines and resetting planer rails, supports, and blocking, using jacks, shovels, sledges, picks, and pinch bars. Free jams in planer hoppers, using metal pinch bars.
47-5051| Rock Splitters, Quarry|Locate grain line patterns to determine how rocks will split when cut. Remove pieces of stone from larger masses, using jackhammers, wedges, and other tools. Insert wedges and feathers into holes, and drive wedges with sledgehammers to split stone sections from masses. Mark dimensions or outlines on stone prior to cutting, using rules and chalk lines. Cut slabs of stone into sheets that will be used for floors or counters. Set charges of explosives to split rock. Drill holes along outlines, using jackhammers. Drill holes into sides of stones broken from masses, insert dogs or attach slings, and direct removal of stones. Cut grooves along outlines, using chisels.
47-5061| Roof Bolters, Mining|Drill bolt holes into roofs at specified distances from ribs or adjacent bolts. Force bolts into holes, using hydraulic mechanisms of self-propelled bolting machines. Remove drill bits from chucks after drilling holes and insert bolts into chucks. Test bolts for specified tension, using torque wrenches. Position safety jacks to support underground mine roofs until bolts can be installed. Position bolting machines, and insert drill bits into chucks. Rotate chucks to turn bolts and open expansion heads against rock formations. Install truss bolts traversing entire ceiling spans. Tighten ends of anchored truss bolts, using turnbuckles.
47-5071| Roustabouts, Oil and Gas|Keep pipe deck and main deck areas clean and tidy. Unscrew or tighten pipes, casing, tubing, and pump rods, using hand and power wrenches and tongs. Walk flow lines to locate leaks, using electronic detectors and by making visual inspections, and repair the leaks. Move pipes to and from trucks, using truck winches and motorized lifts, or by hand. Bolt together pump and engine parts. Guide cranes to move loads about decks. Supply equipment to rig floors as requested, and provide assistance to roughnecks. Dismantle and repair oil field machinery, boilers, and steam engine parts, using hand tools and power tools. Clean up spilled oil by bailing it into barrels. Dig drainage ditches around wells and storage tanks. Bolt or nail together wood or steel framework to erect derricks. Cut down and remove trees and brush to clear drill sites, to reduce fire hazards, and to make way for roads to sites. Dig holes, set forms, and mix and pour concrete into forms to make foundations for wood or steel derricks.
47-5081| Helpers--Extraction Workers|Repair and maintain automotive and drilling equipment, using hand tools. Observe and monitor equipment operation during the extraction process to detect any problems. Drive moving equipment to transport materials and parts to excavation sites. Clean up work areas and remove debris after extraction activities are complete. Organize materials to prepare for use. Provide assistance to extraction craft workers, such as earth drillers and derrick operators. Dismantle extracting and boring equipment used for excavation, using hand tools. Unload materials, devices and machine parts, using hand tools. Load materials into well holes or into equipment, using hand tools. Signal workers to start geological material extraction or boring. Clean and prepare sites for excavation or boring. Set up and adjust equipment used to excavate geological materials. Collect and examine geological matter, using hand tools and testing devices. Dig trenches.
49-1011| First-Line Supervisors of Mechanics, Installers, and Repairers|Determine schedules, sequences, and assignments for work activities, based on work priority, quantity of equipment, and skill of personnel. Inspect and monitor work areas, examine tools and equipment, and provide employee safety training to prevent, detect, and correct unsafe conditions or violations of procedures and safety rules. Investigate accidents or injuries and prepare reports of findings. Monitor employees' work levels and review work performance. Requisition materials and supplies, such as tools, equipment, or replacement parts. Inspect, test, and measure completed work, using devices such as hand tools or gauges to verify conformance to standards or repair requirements. Conduct or arrange for worker training in safety, repair, or maintenance techniques, operational procedures, or equipment use. Develop, implement, or evaluate maintenance policies and procedures. Compute estimates and actual costs of factors such as materials, labor, or outside contractors. Examine objects, systems, or facilities and analyze information to determine needed installations, services, or repairs. Confer with personnel, such as management, engineering, quality control, customer, or union workers' representatives, to coordinate work activities, resolve employee grievances, or identify and review resource needs. Monitor tool and part inventories and the condition and maintenance of shops to ensure adequate working conditions. Perform skilled repair or maintenance operations, using equipment such as hand or power tools, hydraulic presses or shears, or welding equipment. Participate in budget preparation and administration, coordinating purchasing and documentation and monitoring departmental expenditures. Interpret specifications, blueprints, or job orders to construct templates and lay out reference points for workers. Counsel employees about work-related issues and assist employees to correct job-skill deficiencies. Recommend or initiate personnel actions, such as hires, promotions, transfers, discharges, or disciplinary measures. Review, evaluate, accept, and coordinate completion of work bid from contractors. Compile operational or personnel records, such as time and production records, inventory data, repair or maintenance statistics, or test results. Develop or implement electronic maintenance programs or computer information management systems. Meet with vendors or suppliers to discuss products used in repair work. Design equipment configurations to meet personnel needs.
49-2011| Computer, Automated Teller, and Office Machine Repairers|Reassemble machines after making repairs or replacing parts. Converse with customers to determine details of equipment problems. Disassemble machines to examine parts, such as wires, gears, or bearings for wear or defects, using hand or power tools and measuring devices. Advise customers concerning equipment operation, maintenance, or programming. Align, adjust, or calibrate equipment according to specifications. Repair, adjust, or replace electrical or mechanical components or parts, using hand tools, power tools, or soldering or welding equipment. Travel to customers' stores or offices to service machines or to provide emergency repair service. Maintain parts inventories and order any additional parts needed for repairs. Operate machines to test functioning of parts or mechanisms. Reinstall software programs or adjust settings on existing software to fix machine malfunctions. Clean, oil, or adjust mechanical parts to maintain machines' operating efficiency and to prevent breakdowns. Maintain records of equipment maintenance work or repairs. Test new systems to ensure that they are in working order. Complete repair bills, shop records, time cards, or expense reports. Install and configure new equipment, including operating software or peripheral equipment. Analyze equipment performance records to assess equipment functioning. Read specifications, such as blueprints, charts, or schematics, to determine machine settings or adjustments. Update existing equipment, performing tasks such as installing updated circuit boards or additional memory. Test components or circuits of faulty equipment to locate defects, using oscilloscopes, signal generators, ammeters, voltmeters, or special diagnostic software programs. Assemble machines according to specifications, using hand or power tools and measuring devices. Lay cable and hook up electrical connections between machines, power sources, and phone lines. Enter information into computers to copy programs from one electronic component to another or to draw, modify, or store schematics. Fill machines with toners, inks, or other duplicating fluids. Train new repairers. Calibrate testing instruments.
49-2021| Radio, Cellular, and Tower Equipment Installers and Repairers|Read work orders, blueprints, plans, datasheets or site drawings to determine work to be done. Inspect completed work to ensure all hardware is tight, antennas are level, hangers are properly fastened, proper support is in place, or adequate weather proofing has been installed. Bolt equipment into place, using hand or power tools. Test operation of tower transmission components, using sweep testing tools or software. Run appropriate power, ground, or coaxial cables. Check antenna positioning to ensure specified azimuths or mechanical tilts and adjust as necessary. Replace existing antennas with new antennas as directed. Install all necessary transmission equipment components, including antennas or antenna mounts, surge arrestors, transmission lines, connectors, or tower-mounted amplifiers (TMAs). Take site survey photos or photos of work performed, using digital cameras. Complete reports related to project status, progress, or other work details, using computer software. Climb communication towers to install, replace, or repair antennas or auxiliary equipment used to transmit and receive radio waves. Perform maintenance or repair work on existing tower equipment, using hand or power tools. Lift equipment into position, using cranes and rigging tools or equipment such as gin poles. Climb towers to access components, using safety equipment, such as full-body harnesses. Install, connect, or test underground or aboveground grounding systems. Transport equipment to work sites, using utility trucks and equipment trailers. Locate tower sites where work is to be performed, using mapping software. Assemble or erect communications towers, using construction or rigging equipment. Install or repair tower lighting components, including strobes, beacons, or lighting controllers.
49-2022| Telecommunications Equipment Installers and Repairers, Except Line Installers|Note differences in wire and cable colors so that work can be performed correctly. Test circuits and components of malfunctioning telecommunications equipment to isolate sources of malfunctions, using test meters, circuit diagrams, polarity probes, and other hand tools. Test repaired, newly installed, or updated equipment to ensure that it functions properly and conforms to specifications, using test equipment and observation. Drive crew trucks to and from work areas. Inspect equipment on a regular basis to ensure proper functioning. Repair or replace faulty equipment such as defective and damaged telephones, wires, switching system components, and associated equipment. Remove and remake connections to change circuit layouts, following work orders or diagrams. Demonstrate equipment to customers and explain how it is to be used, and respond to any inquiries or complaints. Analyze test readings, computer printouts, and trouble reports to determine equipment repair needs and required repair methods. Adjust or modify equipment to enhance equipment performance or to respond to customer requests. Request support from technical service centers when on-site procedures fail to solve installation or maintenance problems. Remove loose wires and other debris after work is completed. Assemble and install communication equipment such as data and telephone communication lines, wiring, switching equipment, wiring frames, power apparatus, computer systems, and networks. Communicate with bases, using telephones or two-way radios to receive instructions or technical advice, or to report equipment status. Collaborate with other workers to locate and correct malfunctions. Review manufacturer's instructions, manuals, technical specifications, building permits, and ordinances to determine communication equipment requirements and procedures. Test connections to ensure that power supplies are adequate and that communications links function. Climb poles and ladders, use truck-mounted booms, and enter areas such as manholes and cable vaults to install, maintain, or inspect equipment. Refer to manufacturers' manuals to obtain maintenance instructions pertaining to specific malfunctions. Designate cables available for use. Run wires between components and to outside cable systems, connecting them to wires from telephone poles or underground cable accesses. Remove and replace plug-in circuit equipment. Route and connect cables and lines to switches, switchboard equipment, and distributing frames, using wire-wrap guns or soldering irons to connect wires to terminals. Clean and maintain tools, test equipment, and motor vehicles. Program computerized switches and switchboards to provide requested features. Diagnose and correct problems from remote locations, using special switchboards to find the sources of problems. Maintain computer and manual records pertaining to facilities and equipment. Install updated software, and programs that maintain existing software or provide requested features such as time-correlated call routing. Enter codes needed to correct electronic switching system programming. Perform database verifications, using computers. Address special issues or situations, such as illegal or unauthorized use of equipment, or cases of electrical or acoustic shock. Examine telephone transmission facilities to determine requirements for new or additional telephone services. Determine viability of sites through observation, and discuss site locations and construction requirements with customers. Perform routine maintenance on equipment, including adjusting and lubricating components, and painting worn or exposed areas. Measure distances from landmarks to identify exact installation sites for equipment. Clean switches and replace contact points, using vacuum hoses, solvents, and hand tools. Dig holes or trenches as necessary for equipment installation and access. Install telephone station equipment, such as intercommunication systems, transmitters, receivers, relays, and ringers, and related apparatus, such as coin collectors, telephone booths, and switching-key equipment. Provide input into the design and manufacturing of new equipment.
49-2091| Avionics Technicians|Test and troubleshoot instruments, components, and assemblies, using circuit testers, oscilloscopes, or voltmeters. Keep records of maintenance and repair work. Adjust, repair, or replace malfunctioning components or assemblies, using hand tools or soldering irons. Install electrical and electronic components, assemblies, and systems in aircraft, using hand tools, power tools, or soldering irons. Set up and operate ground support and test equipment to perform functional flight tests of electrical and electronic systems. Assemble components such as switches, electrical controls, and junction boxes, using hand tools or soldering irons. Lay out installation of aircraft assemblies and systems, following documentation such as blueprints, manuals, and wiring diagrams. Connect components to assemblies such as radio systems, instruments, magnetos, inverters, and in-flight refueling systems, using hand tools and soldering irons. Interpret flight test data to diagnose malfunctions and systemic performance problems. Coordinate work with that of engineers, technicians, and other aircraft maintenance personnel. Fabricate parts and test aids as required. Assemble prototypes or models of circuits, instruments, and systems for use in testing. Operate computer-aided drafting and design applications to design avionics system modifications.
49-2092| Electric Motor, Power Tool, and Related Repairers|Measure velocity, horsepower, revolutions per minute (rpm), amperage, circuitry, and voltage of units or parts to diagnose problems, using ammeters, voltmeters, wattmeters, and other testing devices. Record repairs required, parts used, and labor time. Reassemble repaired electric motors to specified requirements and ratings, using hand tools and electrical meters. Maintain stocks of parts. Repair and rebuild defective mechanical parts in electric motors, generators, and related equipment, using hand tools and power tools. Rewire electrical systems, and repair or replace electrical accessories. Inspect electrical connections, wiring, relays, charging resistance boxes, and storage batteries, following wiring diagrams. Read service guides to find information needed to perform repairs. Inspect and test equipment to locate damage or worn parts and diagnose malfunctions, or read work orders or schematic drawings to determine required repairs. Solder, wrap, and coat wires to ensure proper insulation. Assemble electrical parts such as alternators, generators, starting devices, and switches, following schematic drawings and using hand, machine, and power tools. Lubricate moving parts. Remove and replace defective parts such as coil leads, carbon brushes, and wires, using soldering equipment. Disassemble defective equipment so that repairs can be made, using hand tools. Lift units or parts such as motors or generators, using cranes or chain hoists, or signal crane operators to lift heavy parts or subassemblies. Weld, braze, or solder electrical connections. Reface, ream, and polish commutators and machine parts to specified tolerances, using machine tools. Adjust working parts, such as fan belts, contacts, and springs, using hand tools and gauges. Clean cells, cell assemblies, glassware, leads, electrical connections, and battery poles, using scrapers, steam, water, emery cloths, power grinders, or acid. Scrape and clean units or parts, using cleaning solvents and equipment such as buffing wheels. Rewind coils on cores in slots, or make replacement coils, using coil-winding machines. Cut and form insulation, and insert insulation into armature, rotor, or stator slots. Set machinery for proper performance, using computers. Drain and filter transformer oil and refill transformers with oil until coils are submerged. Position and level battery cells, anodes, or cathodes, using hoists or leveling jacks, or signal other workers to perform positioning and leveling. Verify and adjust alignments and dimensions of parts, using gauges and tracing lathes. Test equipment for overheating, using speed gauges and thermometers. Bolt porcelain insulators to wood parts to assemble hot stools. Pour compounds into transformer-case terminal openings to seal out moisture. Test conditions, fluid levels, and specific gravities of electrolyte cells, using voltmeters, hydrometers, and thermometers. Clean, rinse, and dry transformer cases, using boiling water, scrapers, solvents, hoses, and cloths. Inspect batteries for structural defects such as dented cans, damaged carbon rods and terminals, and defective seals. Steam-clean polishing and buffing wheels to remove abrasives and bonding materials, and spray, brush, or recoat surfaces as necessary. Test battery charges, and replace or recharge batteries as necessary. Repair and operate battery-charging equipment.
49-2093| Electrical and Electronics Installers and Repairers, Transportation Equipment|Inspect and test electrical systems and equipment to locate and diagnose malfunctions, using visual inspections, testing devices, and computer software. Reassemble and test equipment after repairs. Splice wires with knives or cutting pliers, and solder connections to fixtures, outlets, and equipment. Install new fuses, electrical cables, or power sources as required. Locate and remove or repair circuit defects such as blown fuses or malfunctioning transistors. Adjust, repair, or replace defective wiring and relays in ignition, lighting, air-conditioning, and safety control systems, using electrician's tools. Refer to schematics and manufacturers' specifications that show connections and provide instructions on how to locate problems. Maintain equipment service records. Cut openings and drill holes for fixtures, outlet boxes, and fuse holders, using electric drills and routers. Measure, cut, and install frameworks and conduit to support and connect wiring, control panels, and junction boxes, using hand tools. Install electrical equipment such as air-conditioning, heating, or ignition systems and components such as generator brushes and commutators, using hand tools. Install fixtures, outlets, terminal boards, switches, and wall boxes, using hand tools. Repair or rebuild equipment such as starters, generators, distributors, or door controls, using electrician's tools. Confer with customers to determine the nature of malfunctions.
49-2094| Electrical and Electronics Repairers, Commercial and Industrial Equipment|Test faulty equipment to diagnose malfunctions, using test equipment or software, and applying knowledge of the functional operation of electronic units and systems. Study blueprints, schematics, manuals, or other specifications to determine installation procedures. Repair or adjust equipment, machines, or defective components, replacing worn parts, such as gaskets or seals in watertight electrical equipment. Maintain equipment logs that record performance problems, repairs, calibrations, or tests. Inspect components of industrial equipment for accurate assembly and installation or for defects, such as loose connections or frayed wires. Perform scheduled preventive maintenance tasks, such as checking, cleaning, or repairing equipment, to detect and prevent problems. Calibrate testing instruments and installed or repaired equipment to prescribed specifications. Examine work orders and converse with equipment operators to detect equipment problems and to ascertain whether mechanical or human errors contributed to the problems. Set up and test industrial equipment to ensure that it functions properly. Operate equipment to demonstrate proper use or to analyze malfunctions. Coordinate efforts with other workers involved in installing or maintaining equipment or components. Consult with customers, supervisors, or engineers to plan layout of equipment or to resolve problems in system operation or maintenance. Enter information into computer to copy program or to draw, modify, or store schematics, applying knowledge of software package used. Maintain inventory of spare parts. Install repaired equipment in various settings, such as industrial or military establishments. Develop or modify industrial electronic devices, circuits, or equipment, according to available specifications. Send defective units to the manufacturer or to a specialized repair shop for repair. Determine feasibility of using standardized equipment or develop specifications for equipment required to perform additional functions. Advise management regarding customer satisfaction, product performance, or suggestions for product improvements.
49-2095| Electrical and Electronics Repairers, Powerhouse, Substation, and Relay|Construct, test, maintain, and repair substation relay and control systems. Inspect and test equipment and circuits to identify malfunctions or defects, using wiring diagrams and testing devices such as ohmmeters, voltmeters, or ammeters. Consult manuals, schematics, wiring diagrams, and engineering personnel to troubleshoot and solve equipment problems and to determine optimum equipment functioning. Notify facility personnel of equipment shutdowns. Open and close switches to isolate defective relays, performing adjustments or repairs. Prepare and maintain records detailing tests, repairs, and maintenance. Analyze test data to diagnose malfunctions, to determine performance characteristics of systems, or to evaluate effects of system modifications. Test insulators and bushings of equipment by inducing voltage across insulation, testing current, and calculating insulation loss. Repair, replace, and clean equipment and components such as circuit breakers, brushes, and commutators. Disconnect voltage regulators, bolts, and screws, and connect replacement regulators to high-voltage lines. Schedule and supervise the construction and testing of special devices and the implementation of unique monitoring or control systems. Run signal quality and connectivity tests for individual cables, and record results. Schedule and supervise splicing or termination of cables in color-code order. Test oil in circuit breakers and transformers for dielectric strength, refilling oil periodically. Maintain inventories of spare parts for all equipment, requisitioning parts as necessary. Set forms and pour concrete footings for installation of heavy equipment.
49-2096| Electronic Equipment Installers and Repairers, Motor Vehicles|Splice wires with knives or cutting pliers, and solder connections to fixtures and equipment. Diagnose or repair problems with electronic equipment, such as sound, navigation, communication, and security equipment, in motor vehicles. Inspect and test electrical or electronic systems to locate and diagnose malfunctions, using visual inspections and testing instruments such as oscilloscopes and voltmeters. Install equipment and accessories such as stereos, navigation equipment, communication equipment, and security systems. Estimate costs of repairs based on parts and labor charges. Confer with customers to determine the nature of malfunctions. Run new speaker and electrical cables. Cut openings and drill holes for fixtures and equipment, using electric drills and routers. Replace and clean electrical or electronic components. Remove seats, carpeting, and interiors of doors and add sound-absorbing material in empty spaces, reinstalling interior parts. Record results of diagnostic tests. Build fiberglass or wooden enclosures for sound components, and fit them to automobile dimensions.
49-2097| Electronic Home Entertainment Equipment Installers and Repairers|Disassemble entertainment equipment and repair or replace loose, worn, or defective components and wiring, using hand tools and soldering irons. Install, service, and repair electronic equipment or instruments such as televisions, radios, and videocassette recorders. Calibrate and test equipment, and locate circuit and component faults, using hand and power tools and measuring and testing instruments such as resistance meters and oscilloscopes. Confer with customers to determine the nature of problems or to explain repairs. Tune or adjust equipment and instruments to obtain optimum visual or auditory reception, according to specifications, manuals, and drawings. Instruct customers on the safe and proper use of equipment. Compute cost estimates for labor and materials. Read and interpret electronic circuit diagrams, function block diagrams, specifications, engineering drawings, and service manuals. Keep records of work orders and test and maintenance reports. Make service calls to repair units in customers' homes, or return units to shops for major repairs.
49-2098| Security and Fire Alarm Systems Installers|Install, maintain, or repair security systems, alarm devices, or related equipment, following blueprints of electrical layouts and building plans. Mount and fasten control panels, door and window contacts, sensors, or video cameras and attach electrical and telephone wiring to connect components. Demonstrate systems for customers and explain details, such as the causes and consequences of false alarms. Test and repair circuits and sensors, following wiring and system specifications. Feed cables through access holes, roof spaces, or cavity walls to reach fixture outlets, positioning and terminating cables, wires, or strapping. Examine systems to locate problems, such as loose connections or broken insulation. Test backup batteries, keypad programming, sirens, or other security features to ensure proper functioning or to diagnose malfunctions. Drill holes for wiring in wall studs, joists, ceilings, or floors. Inspect installation sites and study work orders, building plans, and installation manuals to determine materials requirements and installation procedures. Consult with clients to assess risks and to determine security requirements. Mount raceways and conduits and fasten wires to wood framing, using staplers. Adjust sensitivity of units, based on room structures and manufacturers' recommendations, using programming keypads. Keep informed of new products and developments. Order replacement parts. Prepare documents, such as invoices or warranties. Provide customers with cost estimates for equipment installation.
49-3011| Aircraft Mechanics and Service Technicians|Examine and inspect aircraft components, including landing gear, hydraulic systems, and deicers to locate cracks, breaks, leaks, or other problems. Conduct routine and special inspections as required by regulations. Inspect completed work to certify that maintenance meets standards and that aircraft are ready for operation. Read and interpret maintenance manuals, service bulletins, and other specifications to determine the feasibility and method of repairing or replacing malfunctioning or damaged components. Maintain repair logs, documenting all preventive and corrective aircraft maintenance. Modify aircraft structures, space vehicles, systems, or components, following drawings, schematics, charts, engineering orders, and technical publications. Inspect airframes for wear or other defects. Measure parts for wear, using precision instruments. Obtain fuel and oil samples and check them for contamination. Maintain, repair, and rebuild aircraft structures, functional components, and parts such as wings and fuselage, rigging, hydraulic units, oxygen systems, fuel systems, electrical systems, gaskets, and seals. Replace or repair worn, defective, or damaged components, using hand tools, gauges, and testing equipment. Read and interpret pilots' descriptions of problems to diagnose causes. Test operation of engines and other systems, using test equipment such as ignition analyzers, compression checkers, distributor timers, and ammeters. Measure the tension of control cables. Spread plastic film over areas to be repaired to prevent damage to surrounding areas. Remove or install aircraft engines, using hoists or forklift trucks. Assemble and install electrical, plumbing, mechanical, hydraulic, and structural components and accessories, using hand or power tools. Locate and mark dimensions and reference lines on defective or replacement parts, using templates, scribes, compasses, and steel rules. Fabricate defective sections or parts, using metal fabricating machines, saws, brakes, shears, and grinders. Reassemble engines following repair or inspection and reinstall engines in aircraft. Service and maintain aircraft and related apparatus by performing activities such as flushing crankcases, cleaning screens, and lubricating moving parts. Clean, refuel, and change oil in line service aircraft. Trim and shape replacement body sections to specified sizes and fits and secure sections in place, using adhesives, hand tools, and power tools. Accompany aircraft on flights to make in-flight adjustments and corrections. Remove or cut out defective parts or drill holes to gain access to internal defects or damage, using drills and punches. Install and align repaired or replacement parts for subsequent riveting or welding, using clamps and wrenches. Inventory and requisition or order supplies, parts, materials, and equipment. Clean, strip, prime, and sand structural surfaces and materials to prepare them for bonding. Communicate with other workers to coordinate fitting and alignment of heavy parts, or to facilitate processing of repair parts. Examine engines through specially designed openings while working from ladders or scaffolds, or use hoists or lifts to remove the entire engine from an aircraft. Check for corrosion, distortion, and invisible cracks in the fuselage, wings, and tail, using x-ray and magnetic inspection equipment. Disassemble engines and inspect parts, such as turbine blades and cylinders, for corrosion, wear, warping, cracks, and leaks, using precision measuring instruments, x-rays, and magnetic inspection equipment. Cure bonded structures, using portable or stationary curing equipment. Listen to operating engines to detect and diagnose malfunctions such as sticking or burned valves. Clean engines, sediment bulk and screens, and carburetors, adjusting carburetor float levels. Determine repair limits for engine hot section parts. Remove, inspect, repair, and install in-flight refueling stores and external fuel tanks. Prepare and paint aircraft surfaces.
49-3021| Automotive Body and Related Repairers|Follow supervisors' instructions as to which parts to restore or replace and how much time the job should take. Review damage reports, prepare or review repair cost estimates, and plan work to be performed. Sand body areas to be painted and cover bumpers, windows, and trim with masking tape or paper to protect them from the paint. Fit and weld replacement parts into place, using wrenches and welding equipment, and grind down welds to smooth them, using power grinders and other tools. Prime and paint repaired surfaces, using paint sprayguns and motorized sanders. Remove damaged sections of vehicles using metal-cutting guns, air grinders and wrenches, and install replacement parts using wrenches or welding equipment. Chain or clamp frames and sections to alignment machines that use hydraulic pressure to align damaged components. Fill small dents that cannot be worked out with plastic or solder. File, grind, sand, and smooth filled or repaired surfaces, using power tools and hand tools. Remove upholstery, accessories, electrical window-and-seat-operating equipment, and trim to gain access to vehicle bodies and fenders. Position dolly blocks against surfaces of dented areas and beat opposite surfaces to remove dents, using hammers. Mix polyester resins and hardeners to be used in restoring damaged areas. Adjust or align headlights, wheels, and brake systems. Cut and tape plastic separating film to outside repair areas to avoid damaging surrounding surfaces during repair procedure and remove tape and wash surfaces after repairs are complete. Remove small pits and dimples in body metal, using pick hammers and punches. Fit and secure windows, vinyl roofs, and metal trim to vehicle bodies, using caulking guns, adhesive brushes, and mallets. Remove damaged panels, and identify the family and properties of the plastic used on a vehicle. Clean work areas, using air hoses, to remove damaged material and discarded fiberglass strips used in repair procedures. Apply heat to plastic panels, using hot-air welding guns or immersion in hot water, and press the softened panels back into shape by hand. Inspect repaired vehicles for proper functioning, completion of work, dimensional accuracy, and overall appearance of paint job, and test drive vehicles to ensure proper alignment and handling. Read specifications or confer with customers to determine the desired custom modifications for altering the appearance of vehicles. Measure and mark vinyl material and cut material to size for roof installation, using rules, straightedges, and hand shears. Replace damaged glass on vehicles. Soak fiberglass matting in resin mixtures and apply layers of matting over repair areas to specified thicknesses. Cut openings in vehicle bodies for the installation of customized windows, using templates and power shears or chisels.
49-3022| Automotive Glass Installers and Repairers|Prime all scratches on pinchwelds with primer and allow to dry. Remove all dirt, foreign matter, and loose glass from damaged areas, apply primer along windshield or window edges, and allow primer to dry. Allow all glass parts installed with urethane ample time to cure, taking temperature and humidity into account. Apply a bead of urethane around the perimeter of each pinchweld and dress the remaining urethane on the pinchwelds so that it is of uniform level and thickness. Select appropriate tools, safety equipment, and parts, according to job requirements. Install replacement glass in vehicles. Obtain windshields or windows for specific automobile makes and models from stock and examine them for defects prior to installation. Check for and remove moisture or contamination in damaged areas and keep areas dry until repairs are complete. Replace all moldings, clips, windshield wipers, or other parts that were removed prior to glass replacement or repair. Remove broken or damaged glass windshields or window glass from motor vehicles, using hand tools to remove screws from frames holding glass. Remove moldings, clips, windshield wipers, screws, bolts, and inside A-pillar moldings and lower headliners in preparation for installation or repair work. Install, repair, or replace safety glass and related materials, such as back glass heating elements, on vehicles or equipment. Cool or warm glass in the event of temperature extremes. Replace or adjust motorized or manual window-raising mechanisms. Install new foam dams on pinchwelds, if required. Install rubber channeling strips around edges of glass or frames to weatherproof windows or to prevent rattling. Hold cut or uneven edges of glass against automated abrasive belts to shape or smooth edges. Cut flat safety glass according to specified patterns or perform precision pattern making and glass cutting to custom fit replacement windows.
49-3023| Automotive Service Technicians and Mechanics|Test drive vehicles and test components and systems, using equipment such as infrared engine analyzers, compression gauges, and computerized diagnostic devices. Examine vehicles to determine extent of damage or malfunctions. Repair, reline, replace, and adjust brakes. Follow checklists to ensure all important parts are examined, including belts, hoses, steering systems, spark plugs, brake and fuel systems, wheel bearings, and other potentially troublesome areas. Confer with customers to obtain descriptions of vehicle problems and to discuss work to be performed and future repair requirements. Perform routine and scheduled maintenance services, such as oil changes, lubrications, and tune-ups. Repair and service air conditioning, heating, engine cooling, and electrical systems. Test and adjust repaired systems to meet manufacturers' performance specifications. Review work orders and discuss work with supervisors. Tear down, repair, and rebuild faulty assemblies, such as power systems, steering systems, and linkages. Plan work procedures, using charts, technical manuals, and experience. Disassemble units and inspect parts for wear, using micrometers, calipers, and gauges. Repair or replace parts such as pistons, rods, gears, valves, and bearings. Rewire ignition systems, lights, and instrument panels. Repair manual and automatic transmissions. Install and repair accessories, such as radios, heaters, mirrors, and windshield wipers. Maintain cleanliness of work area. Repair or replace shock absorbers. Replace and adjust headlights. Overhaul or replace carburetors, blowers, generators, distributors, starters, and pumps. Repair radiator leaks. Align vehicles' front ends. Rebuild parts, such as crankshafts and cylinder blocks. Repair damaged automobile bodies.Inspect vehicles for damage and record findings so that necessary repairs can be made. Estimate costs of vehicle repair. Troubleshoot fuel, ignition, and emissions control systems, using electronic testing equipment. Repair, overhaul, or adjust automobile brake systems. Test electronic computer components in automobiles to ensure proper operation. Repair or replace defective ball joint suspensions, brake shoes, or wheel bearings. Align wheels, axles, frames, torsion bars, and steering mechanisms of automobiles, using special alignment equipment and wheel-balancing machines. Tune automobile engines to ensure proper and efficient functioning. Repair, replace, or adjust defective fuel injectors, carburetor parts, and gasoline filters. Rebuild, repair, or test automotive fuel injection units. Change spark plugs, fuel filters, air filters, and batteries in hybrid electric vehicles. Install or repair air conditioners and service components, such as compressors, condensers, and controls. Install, adjust, or repair hydraulic or electromagnetic automatic lift mechanisms used to raise and lower automobile windows, seats, and tops. Repair or rebuild clutch systems. Repair or replace automobile leaf springs. Replace defective mufflers and tailpipes. Conduct visual inspections of compressed natural gas fuel systems to identify cracks, gouges, abrasions, discoloration, broken fibers, loose brackets, damaged gaskets, or other problems. Diagnose and replace or repair engine management systems or related sensors for flexible fuel vehicles (FFVs) with ignition timing, fuel rate, alcohol concentration, or air-to-fuel ratio malfunctions. Replace hydraulically assisted systems with electric-powered systems, such as power steering pumps or air conditioning compressors, to improve fuel economy. Service or repair butane gas, ethanol, methane, or other alternative or biofuel systems. Service internal combustion engine systems for hybrid electric vehicles. Diagnose and repair regenerative braking systems or hydraulic systems in hybrid vehicles. Service biodiesel fuel tanks for algae or sludge accumulation by cleaning, changing filters, or adding algaecides.
49-3031| Bus and Truck Mechanics and Diesel Engine Specialists|Inspect brake systems, steering mechanisms, wheel bearings, and other important parts to ensure that they are in proper operating condition. Use handtools such as screwdrivers, pliers, wrenches, pressure gauges, and precision instruments, as well as power tools such as pneumatic wrenches, lathes, welding equipment, and jacks and hoists. Adjust and reline brakes, align wheels, tighten bolts and screws, and reassemble equipment. Examine and adjust protective guards, loose bolts, and specified safety devices. Perform routine maintenance such as changing oil, checking batteries, and lubricating equipment and machinery. Test drive trucks and buses to diagnose malfunctions or to ensure that they are working properly. Raise trucks, buses, and heavy parts or equipment using hydraulic jacks or hoists. Attach test instruments to equipment, and read dials and gauges to diagnose malfunctions. Rebuild gas or diesel engines. Inspect and verify dimensions and clearances of parts to ensure conformance to factory specifications. Inspect, test, and listen to defective equipment to diagnose malfunctions, using test instruments such as handheld computers, motor analyzers, chassis charts, and pressure gauges. Recondition and replace parts, pistons, bearings, gears, and valves. Rewire ignition systems, lights, and instrument panels. Specialize in repairing and maintaining parts of the engine, such as fuel injection systems. Align front ends and suspension systems. Inspect, repair, and maintain automotive and mechanical equipment and machinery such as pumps and compressors. Install or repair accessories. Disassemble and overhaul internal combustion engines, pumps, generators, transmissions, clutches, and differential units. Diagnose and repair vehicle heating and cooling systems. Repair or adjust seats, doors, or windows. Follow green operational practices involving conservation of water or energy or reduction of solid waste. Adjust or repair computer controlled exhaust emissions devices. Measure vehicle emissions to determine whether they are within acceptable limits. Maintain or repair vehicles with alternative fuel systems, including biodiesel, hybrid, or compressed natural gas vehicles. Operate valve-grinding machines to grind and reset valves.
49-3041| Farm Equipment Mechanics and Service Technicians|Record details of repairs made and parts used. Reassemble machines and equipment following repair, testing operation and making adjustments as necessary. Maintain, repair, and overhaul farm machinery and vehicles, such as tractors, harvesters, and irrigation systems. Examine and listen to equipment, read inspection reports, and confer with customers to locate and diagnose malfunctions. Dismantle defective machines for repair, using hand tools. Test and replace electrical components and wiring, using test meters, soldering equipment, and hand tools. Repair or replace defective parts, using hand tools, milling and woodworking machines, lathes, welding equipment, grinders, or saws. Clean and lubricate parts. Tune or overhaul engines. Drive trucks to haul tools and equipment for on-site repair of large machinery. Fabricate new metal parts, using drill presses, engine lathes, and other machine tools. Calculate bills according to record of repairs made, labor time, and parts used. Install and repair agricultural irrigation, plumbing, and sprinkler systems. Repair bent or torn sheet metal.
49-3042| Mobile Heavy Equipment Mechanics, Except Engines|Repair and replace damaged or worn parts. Dismantle and reassemble heavy equipment using hoists and hand tools. Operate and inspect machines or heavy equipment to diagnose defects. Test mechanical products and equipment after repair or assembly to ensure proper performance and compliance with manufacturers' specifications. Clean, lubricate, and perform other routine maintenance work on equipment and vehicles. Read and understand operating manuals, blueprints, and technical drawings. Overhaul and test machines or equipment to ensure operating efficiency. Fit bearings to adjust, repair, or overhaul mobile mechanical, hydraulic, and pneumatic equipment. Diagnose faults or malfunctions to determine required repairs, using engine diagnostic equipment such as computerized test equipment and calibration devices. Examine parts for damage or excessive wear, using micrometers and gauges. Repair, rewire, and troubleshoot electrical systems. Schedule maintenance for industrial machines and equipment, and keep equipment service records. Research, order, and maintain parts inventory for services and repairs. Adjust, maintain, and repair or replace subassemblies, such as transmissions and crawler heads, using hand tools, jacks, and cranes. Clean parts by spraying them with grease solvent or immersing them in tanks of solvent. Weld or solder broken parts and structural members, using electric or gas welders and soldering tools. Adjust and maintain industrial machinery, using control and regulating devices. Assemble gear systems, and align frames and gears. Fabricate needed parts or items from sheet metal. Direct workers who are assembling or disassembling equipment or cleaning parts.
49-3043| Rail Car Repairers|Repair or replace defective or worn parts such as bearings, pistons, and gears, using hand tools, torque wrenches, power tools, and welding equipment. Test units for operability before and after repairs. Record conditions of cars, and repair and maintenance work performed or to be performed. Remove locomotives, car mechanical units, or other components, using pneumatic hoists and jacks, pinch bars, hand tools, and cutting torches. Inspect components such as bearings, seals, gaskets, wheels, and coupler assemblies to determine if repairs are needed. Inspect the interior and exterior of rail cars coming into rail yards to identify defects and to determine the extent of wear and damage. Adjust repaired or replaced units as needed to ensure proper operation. Perform scheduled maintenance, and clean units and components. Repair, fabricate, and install steel or wood fittings, using blueprints, shop sketches, and instruction manuals. Repair and maintain electrical and electronic controls for propulsion and braking systems. Disassemble units such as water pumps, control valves, and compressors so that repairs can be made. Measure diameters of axle wheel seats, using micrometers, and mark dimensions on axles so that wheels can be bored to specified dimensions. Align car sides for installation of car ends and crossties, using width gauges, turnbuckles, and wrenches. Replace defective wiring and insulation, and tighten electrical connections, using hand tools. Test electrical systems of cars by operating systems and using testing equipment such as ammeters. Install and repair interior flooring, fixtures, walls, plumbing, steps, and platforms.
49-3051| Motorboat Mechanics and Service Technicians|Start motors and monitor performance for signs of malfunctioning, such as smoke, excessive vibration, or misfiring. Document inspection and test results and work performed or to be performed. Mount motors to boats and operate boats at various speeds on waterways to conduct operational tests. Repair engine mechanical equipment, such as power tilts, bilge pumps, or power take-offs. Perform routine engine maintenance on motorboats, such as changing oil and filters. Replace parts, such as gears, magneto points, piston rings, or spark plugs, and reassemble engines. Idle motors and observe thermometers to determine the effectiveness of cooling systems. Inspect and repair or adjust propellers or propeller shafts. Adjust carburetor mixtures, electrical point settings, or timing while motors are running in water-filled test tanks. Set starter locks and align and repair steering or throttle controls, using gauges, screwdrivers, or wrenches. Disassemble and inspect motors to locate defective parts, using mechanic's hand tools and gauges. Adjust generators and replace faulty wiring, using hand tools and soldering irons. Repair or rework parts, using machine tools such as lathes, mills, drills, or grinders.
49-3052| Motorcycle Mechanics|Mount, balance, change, or check condition or pressure of tires. Listen to engines, examine vehicle frames, or confer with customers to determine nature and extent of malfunction or damage. Replace defective parts, using hand tools, arbor presses, flexible power presses, or power tools. Repair or adjust motorcycle subassemblies, such as forks, transmissions, brakes, or drive chains, according to specifications. Repair or replace other parts, such as headlights, horns, handlebar controls, gasoline or oil tanks, starters, or mufflers. Dismantle engines and repair or replace defective parts, such as magnetos, carburetors, or generators. Connect test panels to engines and measure generator output, ignition timing, or other engine performance indicators. Disassemble subassembly units and examine condition, movement, or alignment of parts, visually or using gauges. Remove cylinder heads and grind valves to scrape off carbon and replace defective valves, pistons, cylinders, or rings, using hand and power tools. Reassemble frames and reinstall engines after repairs. Reassemble and test subassembly units. Hammer out dents and bends in frames and weld tears and breaks.
49-3053| Outdoor Power Equipment and Other Small Engine Mechanics|Repair and maintain gasoline engines used to power equipment such as portable saws, lawn mowers, generators, and compressors. Adjust points, valves, carburetors, distributors, and spark plug gaps, using feeler gauges. Reassemble engines after repair or maintenance work is complete. Record repairs made, time spent, and parts used. Perform routine maintenance such as cleaning and oiling parts, honing cylinders, and tuning ignition systems. Obtain problem descriptions from customers, and prepare cost estimates for repairs. Test and inspect engines to determine malfunctions, to locate missing and broken parts, and to verify repairs, using diagnostic instruments. Repair or replace defective parts such as magnetos, water pumps, gears, pistons, and carburetors, using hand tools. Sell parts and equipment. Show customers how to maintain equipment. Dismantle engines, using hand tools, and examine parts for defects. Replace motors. Grind, ream, rebore, and re-tap parts to obtain specified clearances, using grinders, lathes, taps, reamers, boring machines, and micrometers. Remove engines from equipment, and position and bolt engines to repair stands.
49-3091| Bicycle Repairers|Install and adjust speed and gear mechanisms. Assemble new bicycles. Install, repair, and replace equipment or accessories, such as handlebars, stands, lights, and seats. Align wheels. Disassemble axles to repair, adjust, and replace defective parts, using hand tools. Shape replacement parts, using bench grinders. Repair holes in tire tubes, using scrapers and patches.
49-3092| Recreational Vehicle Service Technicians|Explain proper operation of vehicle systems to customers. Locate and repair frayed wiring, broken connections, or incorrect wiring, using ohmmeters, soldering irons, tape, or hand tools. Repair plumbing or propane gas lines, using caulking compounds and plastic or copper pipe. Confer with customers, read work orders, or examine vehicles needing repair to determine the nature and extent of damage. Examine or test operation of parts or systems to ensure completeness of repairs. Connect electrical systems to outside power sources and activate switches to test the operation of appliances or light fixtures. Connect water hoses to inlet pipes of plumbing systems and test operation of toilets or sinks. Inspect recreational vehicles to diagnose problems and perform necessary adjustment, repair, or overhaul. Inspect, repair, or replace brake systems. Diagnose and repair furnace or air conditioning systems. Repair leaks with caulking compound or replace pipes, using pipe wrenches. List parts needed, estimate costs, and plan work procedures, using parts lists, technical manuals, or diagrams. Remove damaged exterior panels and repair and replace structural frame members. Open and close doors, windows, or drawers to test their operation, trimming edges to fit, as necessary. Reset hardware, using chisels, mallets, and screwdrivers. Refinish wood surfaces on cabinets, doors, moldings, or floors, using power sanders, putty, spray equipment, brushes, paints, or varnishes. Seal open sides of modular units to prepare them for shipment, using polyethylene sheets, nails, and hammers.
49-3093| Tire Repairers and Changers|Raise vehicles, using hydraulic jacks. Remount wheels onto vehicles. Unbolt and remove wheels from vehicles, using lug wrenches or other hand or power tools. Place wheels on balancing machines to determine counterweights required to balance wheels. Identify tire size and ply and inflate tires accordingly. Replace valve stems and remove puncturing objects. Hammer required counterweights onto rims of wheels. Reassemble tires onto wheels. Seal punctures in tubeless tires by inserting adhesive material and expanding rubber plugs into punctures, using hand tools. Inspect tire casings for defects, such as holes or tears. Locate punctures in tubeless tires by visual inspection or by immersing inflated tires in water baths and observing air bubbles. Glue tire patches over ruptures in tire casings, using rubber cement. Assist mechanics and perform various mechanical duties, such as changing oil or checking and replacing batteries. Rotate tires to different positions on vehicles, using hand tools. Clean and tidy up the shop. Buff defective areas of inner tubes, using scrapers. Order replacements for tires or tubes. Separate tubed tires from wheels, using rubber mallets and metal bars or mechanical tire changers. Inflate inner tubes and immerse them in water to locate leaks. Clean sides of whitewall tires. Roll new rubber treads, known as camelbacks, over tire casings and mold the semi-raw rubber treads onto the buffed casings. Prepare rims and wheel drums for reassembly by scraping, grinding, or sandblasting. Apply rubber cement to buffed tire casings prior to vulcanization process. Patch tubes with adhesive rubber patches or seal rubber patches to tubes, using hot vulcanizing plates. Place tire casings and tread rubber assemblies in tire molds for the vulcanization process and exert pressure to ensure good adhesion. Drive automobile or service trucks to industrial sites to provide services or respond to emergency calls.
49-9011| Mechanical Door Repairers|Wind large springs with upward motion of arm. Adjust doors to open or close with the correct amount of effort or make simple adjustments to electric openers. Carry springs to tops of doors, using ladders or scaffolding, and attach springs to tracks to install spring systems. Repair or replace worn or broken door parts, using hand tools. Complete required paperwork, such as work orders, according to services performed or required. Fasten angle iron back-hangers to ceilings and tracks, using fasteners or welding equipment. Collect payment upon job completion. Install door frames, rails, steel rolling curtains, electronic-eye mechanisms, or electric door openers and closers, using power tools, hand tools, and electronic test equipment. Inspect job sites, assessing headroom, side room, or other conditions to determine appropriateness of door for a given location. Assemble and fasten tracks to structures or bucks, using impact wrenches or welding equipment. Set doors into place or stack hardware sections into openings after rail or track installation. Operate lifts, winches, or chain falls to move heavy curtain doors. Remove or disassemble defective automatic mechanical door closers, using hand tools. Fabricate replacements for worn or broken parts, using welders, lathes, drill presses, or shaping or milling machines. Prepare doors for hardware installation, such as drilling holes to install locks. Run low voltage wiring on ceiling surfaces, using insulated staples. Cut door stops or angle irons to fit openings. Study blueprints and schematic diagrams to determine appropriate methods of installing or repairing automated door openers. Install dock seals, bumpers, or shelters. Order replacement springs, sections, or slats. Lubricate door closer oil chambers and pack spindles with leather washers. Set in and secure floor treadles for door activating mechanisms; then connect power packs and electrical panelboards to treadles. Cover treadles with carpeting or other floor covering materials and test systems by operating treadles.
49-9012| Control and Valve Installers and Repairers, Except Mechanical Door|Turn meters on or off to establish or close service. Turn valves to allow measured amounts of air or gas to pass through meters at specified flow rates. Report hazardous field situations and damaged or missing meters. Record meter readings and installation data on meter cards, work orders, or field service orders, or enter data into hand-held computers. Connect regulators to test stands, and turn screw adjustments until gauges indicate that inlet and outlet pressures meet specifications. Disassemble and repair mechanical control devices or valves, such as regulators, thermostats, or hydrants, using power tools, hand tools, and cutting torches. Record maintenance information, including test results, material usage, and repairs made. Disconnect or remove defective or unauthorized meters, using hand tools. Lubricate wearing surfaces of mechanical parts, using oils or other lubricants. Test valves and regulators for leaks and accurate temperature and pressure settings, using precision testing equipment. Install regulators and related equipment such as gas meters, odorization units, and gas pressure telemetering equipment. Shut off service and notify repair crews when major repairs are required, such as the replacement of underground pipes or wiring. Examine valves or mechanical control device parts for defects, dents, or loose attachments, and mark malfunctioning areas of defective units. Attach air hoses to meter inlets, plug outlets, and observe gauges for pressure losses to test internal seams for leaks. Dismantle meters, and replace or adjust defective parts such as cases, shafts, gears, disks, and recording mechanisms, using soldering irons and hand tools. Advise customers on proper installation of valves or regulators and related equipment. Connect hoses from provers to meter inlets and outlets, and raise prover bells until prover gauges register zero. Make adjustments to meter components, such as setscrews or timing mechanisms, so that they conform to specifications. Replace defective parts, such as bellows, range springs, and toggle switches, and reassemble units according to blueprints, using cam presses and hand tools. Investigate instances of illegal tapping into service lines. Install, inspect and test electric meters, relays, and power sources to detect causes of malfunctions and inaccuracies, using hand tools and testing equipment. Trace and tag meters or house lines. Mount and install meters and other electric equipment such as time clocks, transformers, and circuit breakers, using electricians' hand tools. Vary air pressure flowing into regulators and turn handles to assess functioning of valves and pistons. Attach pressurized meters to fixtures which submerge them in water, and observe meters for leaks. Measure tolerances of assembled and salvageable parts for conformance to standards or specifications, using gauges, micrometers, and calipers. Repair leaks in valve seats or bellows of automotive heater thermostats, using soft solder, flux, and acetylene torches. Clean internal compartments and moving parts, using rags and cleaning compounds. Repair electric meters and components, such as transformers and relays, and replace metering devices, dial glasses, and faulty or incorrect wiring, using hand tools. Recondition displacement type gas meters and governors, fabricating, machining, or modifying parts needed for repairs. Cut seats to receive new orifices, tap inspection ports, and perform other repairs to salvage usable materials, using hand tools and machine tools. Reassemble repaired equipment, and solder top, front, and back case panels in place, using soldering guns, power tools, and hand tools. Calibrate thermostats for specified temperature or pressure settings. Collect money due on delinquent accounts. Recommend and write up specifications for changes in hardware, such as house wiring. Dip valves and regulators in molten lead to prevent leakage, and paint valves, fittings, and other devices, using spray guns. Splice and connect cables from meters or current transformers to pull boxes or switchboards, using hand tools. Clean plant growth, scale, paint, soil, or rust from meter housings, using wire brushes, scrapers, buffers, sandblasters, or cleaning compounds. Clamp regulator units into vises on stages above water tanks, and attach compressed air hoses to intake ports.
49-9021| Heating, Air Conditioning, and Refrigeration Mechanics and Installers|Test pipe or tubing joints or connections for leaks, using pressure gauge or soap-and-water solution. Test electrical circuits or components for continuity, using electrical test equipment. Repair or replace defective equipment, components, or wiring. Discuss heating or cooling system malfunctions with users to isolate problems or to verify that repairs corrected malfunctions. Repair or service heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems to improve efficiency, such as by changing filters, cleaning ducts, or refilling non-toxic refrigerants. Install, connect, or adjust thermostats, humidistats, or timers. Connect heating or air conditioning equipment to fuel, water, or refrigerant source to form complete circuit. Study blueprints, design specifications, or manufacturers' recommendations to ascertain the configuration of heating or cooling equipment components and to ensure the proper installation of components. Comply with all applicable standards, policies, or procedures, such as safety procedures or the maintenance of a clean work area. Install auxiliary components to heating or cooling equipment, such as expansion or discharge valves, air ducts, pipes, blowers, dampers, flues, or stokers. Lay out and connect electrical wiring between controls and equipment, according to wiring diagrams, using electrician's hand tools. Inspect and test systems to verify system compliance with plans and specifications or to detect and locate malfunctions. Record and report time, materials, faults, deficiencies, or other unusual occurrences on work orders. Install and test automatic, programmable, or wireless thermostats in residential or commercial buildings to minimize energy usage for heating or cooling. Adjust system controls to settings recommended by manufacturer to balance system. Install dehumidifiers or related equipment for spaces that require cool, dry air to operate efficiently, such as computer rooms. Recommend, develop, or perform preventive or general maintenance procedures, such as cleaning, power-washing, or vacuuming equipment, oiling parts, or changing filters. Install magnetic-centrifugal chillers, compressors, or related equipment to cool air temperatures through the use of recirculating water. Cut or drill holes in floors, walls, or roof to install equipment, using power saws or drills. Measure, cut, thread, or bend pipe or tubing, using pipe fitter's tools. Install or repair air purification systems, such as specialized filters or ultraviolet (UV) light purification systems. Assemble, position, and mount heating or cooling equipment, following blueprints or manufacturer's specifications. Fabricate, assemble, or install duct work or chassis parts, using portable metal-working tools or welding equipment. Install radiator controls for room-level zone control heating of residential or commercial buildings. Install or repair self-contained ground source heat pumps or hybrid ground or air source heat pumps to minimize carbon-based energy consumption and reduce carbon emissions. Wrap pipes, securing insulation in place with cement or wire bands.Observe and test system operation, using gauges and instruments. Adjust valves according to specifications and charge system with proper type of refrigerant by pumping the specified gas or fluid into the system. Test lines, components, and connections for leaks. Dismantle malfunctioning systems and test components, using electrical, mechanical, and pneumatic testing equipment. Adjust or replace worn or defective mechanisms and parts and reassemble repaired systems. Braze or solder parts to repair defective joints and leaks. Perform mechanical overhauls and refrigerant reclaiming. Keep records of repairs and replacements made and causes of malfunctions. Install expansion and control valves, using acetylene torches and wrenches. Install wiring to connect components to an electric power source. Mount compressor, condenser, and other components in specified locations on frames, using hand tools and acetylene welding equipment. Schedule work with customers and initiate work orders, house requisitions, and orders from stock. Supervise and instruct assistants. Estimate, order, pick up, deliver, and install materials and supplies needed to maintain equipment in good working condition. Cut, bend, thread, and connect pipe to functional components and water, power, or refrigeration system. Lay out reference points for installation of structural and functional components, using measuring instruments. Read blueprints to determine location, size, capacity, and type of components needed to build refrigeration system. Lift and align components into position, using hoist or block and tackle. Fabricate and assemble structural and functional components of refrigeration system, using hand tools, power tools, and welding equipment. Drill holes and install mounting brackets and hangers into floor and walls of building. Insulate shells and cabinets of systems.
49-9031| Home Appliance Repairers|Disassemble appliances so that problems can be diagnosed and repairs can be made. Bill customers for repair work, and collect payment. Trace electrical circuits, following diagrams, and conduct tests with circuit testers and other equipment to locate shorts and grounds. Service and repair domestic electrical or gas appliances, such as clothes washers, refrigerators, stoves, and dryers. Replace worn and defective parts such as switches, bearings, transmissions, belts, gears, circuit boards, or defective wiring. Talk to customers or refer to work orders to establish the nature of appliance malfunctions. Reassemble units after repairs are made, making adjustments and cleaning and lubricating parts as needed. Record maintenance and repair work performed on appliances. Provide repair cost estimates, and recommend whether appliance repair or replacement is a better choice. Maintain stocks of parts used in on-site installation, maintenance, and repair of appliances. Clean and reinstall parts. Observe and examine appliances during operation to detect specific malfunctions such as loose parts or leaking fluid. Observe and test operation of appliances following installation, and make any initial installation adjustments that are necessary. Refer to schematic drawings, product manuals, and troubleshooting guides to diagnose and repair problems. Instruct customers regarding operation and care of appliances, and provide information such as emergency service numbers. Assemble new or reconditioned appliances. Clean, lubricate, and touch up minor defects on newly installed or repaired appliances. Conserve, recover, and recycle refrigerants used in cooling systems. Level refrigerators, adjust doors, and connect water lines to water pipes for ice makers and water dispensers, using hand tools. Set appliance thermostats, and check to ensure that they are functioning properly. Level washing machines and connect hoses to water pipes, using hand tools. Install gas pipes and water lines to connect appliances to existing gas lines or plumbing. Respond to emergency calls for problems such as gas leaks. Install appliances such as refrigerators, washing machines, and stoves. Contact supervisors or offices to receive repair assignments. Light and adjust pilot lights on gas stoves, and examine valves and burners for gas leakage and specified flame. Test and examine gas pipelines and equipment to locate leaks and faulty connections, and to determine the pressure and flow of gas. Measure, cut, and thread pipe, and connect it to feeder lines and equipment or appliances, using rules and hand tools. Take measurements to determine if appliances will fit in installation locations, performing minor carpentry work when necessary to ensure proper installation.
49-9041| Industrial Machinery Mechanics|Repair or maintain the operating condition of industrial production or processing machinery or equipment. Repair or replace broken or malfunctioning components of machinery or equipment. Disassemble machinery or equipment to remove parts and make repairs. Observe and test the operation of machinery or equipment to diagnose malfunctions, using voltmeters or other testing devices. Reassemble equipment after completion of inspections, testing, or repairs. Clean, lubricate, or adjust parts, equipment, or machinery. Examine parts for defects, such as breakage or excessive wear. Operate newly repaired machinery or equipment to verify the adequacy of repairs. Analyze test results, machine error messages, or information obtained from operators to diagnose equipment problems. Record parts or materials used and order or requisition new parts or materials as necessary. Record repairs and maintenance performed. Study blueprints or manufacturers' manuals to determine correct installation or operation of machinery. Cut and weld metal to repair broken metal parts, fabricate new parts, or assemble new equipment. Enter codes and instructions to program computer-controlled machinery. Demonstrate equipment functions and features to machine operators.
49-9043| Maintenance Workers, Machinery|Start machines and observe mechanical operation to determine efficiency and to detect problems. Read work orders and specifications to determine machines and equipment requiring repair or maintenance. Inspect or test damaged machine parts, and mark defective areas or advise supervisors of repair needs. Reassemble machines after the completion of repair or maintenance work. Dismantle machines and remove parts for repair, using hand tools, chain falls, jacks, cranes, or hoists. Install, replace, or change machine parts and attachments, according to production specifications. Collaborate with other workers to repair or move machines, machine parts, or equipment. Inventory and requisition machine parts, equipment, and other supplies so that stock can be maintained and replenished. Record production, repair, and machine maintenance information. Set up and operate machines, and adjust controls to regulate operations. Lubricate or apply adhesives or other materials to machines, machine parts, or other equipment, according to specified procedures. Collect and discard worn machine parts and other refuse to maintain machinery and work areas. Clean machines and machine parts, using cleaning solvents, cloths, air guns, hoses, vacuums, or other equipment. Transport machine parts, tools, equipment, and other material between work areas and storage, using cranes, hoists, or dollies. Replace, empty, or replenish machine and equipment containers such as gas tanks or boxes. Replace or repair metal, wood, leather, glass, or other lining in machines, or in equipment compartments or containers. Remove hardened material from machines or machine parts, using abrasives, power and hand tools, jackhammers, sledgehammers, or other equipment. Measure, mix, prepare, and test chemical solutions used to clean or repair machinery and equipment.
49-9044| Millwrights|Insert shims, adjust tension on nuts and bolts, or position parts, using hand tools and measuring instruments, to set specified clearances between moving and stationary parts. Align machines and equipment, using hoists, jacks, hand tools, squares, rules, micrometers, and plumb bobs. Assemble and install equipment, using hand tools and power tools. Lay out mounting holes, using measuring instruments, and drill holes with power drill. Signal crane operator to lower basic assembly units to bedplate, and align unit to centerline. Replace defective parts of machine or adjust clearances and alignment of moving parts. Level bedplate and establish centerline, using straightedge, levels, and transit. Dismantle machines, using hammers, wrenches, crowbars, and other hand tools. Attach moving parts and subassemblies to basic assembly unit, using hand tools and power tools. Move machinery and equipment, using hoists, dollies, rollers, and trucks. Assemble machines, and bolt, weld, rivet, or otherwise fasten them to foundation or other structures, using hand tools and power tools. Conduct preventative maintenance and repair, and lubricate machines and equipment. Bolt parts, such as side and deck plates, jaw plates, and journals, to basic assembly unit. Position steel beams to support bedplates of machines and equipment, using blueprints and schematic drawings, to determine work procedures. Weld, repair, and fabricate equipment or machinery. Shrink-fit bushings, sleeves, rings, liners, gears, and wheels to specified items, using portable gas heating equipment. Fabricate and dismantle parts, equipment, and machines using a cutting torch or other cutting equipment. Dismantle machinery and equipment for shipment to installation site, usually performing installation and maintenance work as part of team. Connect power unit to machines or steam piping to equipment, and test unit to evaluate its mechanical operation. Troubleshoot equipment, electrical components, hydraulics, or other mechanical systems. Construct foundation for machines, using hand tools and building materials such as wood, cement, and steel. Operate engine lathe to grind, file, and turn machine parts to dimensional specifications. Install robot and modify its program, using teach pendant.
49-9045|Refractory Materials Repairers, Except Brickmasons|Reline or repair ladles and pouring spouts with refractory clay, using trowels. Chip slag from linings of ladles or remove linings when beyond repair, using hammers and chisels. Mix specified amounts of sand, clay, mortar powder, and water to form refractory clay or mortar, using shovels or mixing machines. Measure furnace walls to determine dimensions and cut required number of sheets from plastic block, using saws. Tighten locknuts holding refractory stopper assemblies together, spread mortar on jackets to seal sleeve joints, and dry mortar in ovens. Dry and bake new linings by placing inverted linings over burners, building fires in ladles, or by using blowtorches. Remove worn or damaged plastic block refractory linings of furnaces, using hand tools. Fasten stopper heads to rods with metal pins to assemble refractory stoppers used to plug pouring nozzles of steel ladles. Climb scaffolding, carrying hoses, and spray surfaces of cupolas with refractory mixtures, using spray equipment. Drill holes in furnace walls, bolt overlapping layers of plastic to walls, and hammer surfaces to compress layers into solid sheets. Spread mortar on stopper heads and rods, using trowels, and slide brick sleeves over rods to form refractory jackets. Dump and tamp clay in molds, using tamping tools. Disassemble molds, and cut, chip, and smooth clay structures such as floaters, drawbars, and L-blocks. Transfer clay structures to curing ovens, melting tanks, and drawing kilns, using forklifts.
49-9051| Electrical Power-Line Installers and Repairers|Adhere to safety practices and procedures, such as checking equipment regularly and erecting barriers around work areas. Test conductors, according to electrical diagrams and specifications, to identify corresponding conductors and to prevent incorrect connections. Open switches or attach grounding devices to remove electrical hazards from disturbed or fallen lines or to facilitate repairs. Climb poles or use truck-mounted buckets to access equipment. Drive vehicles equipped with tools and materials to job sites. Identify defective sectionalizing devices, circuit breakers, fuses, voltage regulators, transformers, switches, relays, or wiring, using wiring diagrams and electrical-testing instruments. Install, maintain, and repair electrical distribution and transmission systems, including conduits, cables, wires, and related equipment, such as transformers, circuit breakers, and switches. Dig holes, using augers, and set poles, using cranes and power equipment. Place insulating or fireproofing materials over conductors and joints. Install watt-hour meters and connect service drops between power lines and consumers' facilities. Travel in trucks, helicopters, and airplanes to inspect lines for freedom from obstruction and adequacy of insulation. Splice or solder cables together or to overhead transmission lines, customer service lines, or street light lines, using hand tools, epoxies, or specialized equipment. String wire conductors and cables between poles, towers, trenches, pylons, and buildings, setting lines in place and using winches to adjust tension. Inspect and test power lines and auxiliary equipment to locate and identify problems, using reading and testing instruments. Attach cross-arms, insulators, and auxiliary equipment to poles prior to installing them. Coordinate work assignment preparation and completion with other workers. Replace or straighten damaged poles. Trim trees that could be hazardous to the functioning of cables or wires. Lay underground cable directly in trenches, or string it through conduit running through the trenches. Clean, tin, and splice corresponding conductors by twisting ends together or by joining ends with metal clamps and soldering connections. Pull up cable by hand from large reels mounted on trucks. Cut and peel lead sheathing and insulation from defective or newly installed cables and conduits prior to splicing. Cut trenches for laying underground cables, using trenchers and cable plows.
49-9052| Telecommunications Line Installers and Repairers|Set up service for customers, installing, connecting, testing, or adjusting equipment. Travel to customers' premises to install, maintain, or repair audio and visual electronic reception equipment or accessories. Measure signal strength at utility poles, using electronic test equipment. Inspect or test lines or cables, recording and analyzing test results, to assess transmission characteristics and locate faults or malfunctions. Splice cables, using hand tools, epoxy, or mechanical equipment. Access specific areas to string lines or install terminal boxes, auxiliary equipment, or appliances, using bucket trucks, or by climbing poles or ladders, or entering tunnels, trenches, or crawl spaces. Clean or maintain tools or test equipment. String cables between structures and lines from poles, towers, or trenches and pull lines to proper tension. Pull up cable by hand from large reels mounted on trucks. Lay underground cable directly in trenches or string it through conduits running through trenches. Pull cable through ducts by hand or with winches. Dig trenches for underground wires or cables. Explain cable service to subscribers after installation and collect any installation fees that are due. Place insulation over conductors or seal splices with moisture-proof covering. Compute impedance of wires from poles to houses to determine additional resistance needed for reducing signals to desired levels. Install equipment such as amplifiers or repeaters to maintain the strength of communications transmissions. Use a variety of construction equipment to complete installations, such as digger derricks, trenchers, or cable plows. Fill and tamp holes, using cement, earth, and tamping devices.
49-9061| Camera and Photographic Equipment Repairers|Adjust cameras, photographic mechanisms, or equipment such as range and view finders, shutters, light meters, or lens systems, using hand tools. Disassemble equipment to gain access to defect, using hand tools. Test equipment performance, focus of lens system, diaphragm alignment, lens mounts, or film transport, using precision gauges. Clean and lubricate cameras and polish camera lenses, using cleaning materials and work aids. Requisition parts or materials. Calibrate and verify accuracy of light meters, shutter diaphragm operation, or lens carriers, using timing instruments. Examine cameras, equipment, processed film, or laboratory reports to diagnose malfunction, using work aids and specifications. Read and interpret engineering drawings, diagrams, instructions, or specifications to determine needed repairs, fabrication method, and operation sequence. Measure parts to verify specified dimensions or settings, such as camera shutter speed or light meter reading accuracy, using measuring instruments. Fabricate or modify defective electronic, electrical, or mechanical components, using bench lathe, milling machine, shaper, grinder, or precision hand tools, according to specifications. Install electrical assemblies and wiring in aircraft camera housings and memory cards or film in cameras, following blueprints and using hand tools and soldering equipment. Assemble aircraft cameras, still or motion picture cameras, photographic equipment, or frames, using diagrams, blueprints, bench machines, hand tools, or power tools. Record test data and document fabrication techniques on reports.
49-9062| Medical Equipment Repairers|Inspect and test malfunctioning medical or related equipment, following manufacturers' specifications and using test and analysis instruments. Test or calibrate components or equipment, following manufacturers' manuals and troubleshooting techniques, using hand tools, power tools, or measuring devices. Keep records of maintenance, repair, and required updates of equipment. Perform preventive maintenance or service, such as cleaning, lubricating, or adjusting equipment. Test, evaluate, and classify excess or in-use medical equipment and determine serviceability, condition, and disposition, in accordance with regulations. Examine medical equipment or facility's structural environment and check for proper use of equipment to protect patients and staff from electrical or mechanical hazards and to ensure compliance with safety regulations. Disassemble malfunctioning equipment and remove, repair, or replace defective parts, such as motors, clutches, or transformers. Plan and carry out work assignments, using blueprints, schematic drawings, technical manuals, wiring diagrams, or liquid or air flow sheets, following prescribed regulations, directives, or other instructions as required. Research catalogs or repair part lists to locate sources for repair parts, requisitioning parts and recording their receipt. Solder loose connections, using soldering iron. Explain or demonstrate correct operation or preventive maintenance of medical equipment to personnel. Contribute expertise to develop medical maintenance standard operating procedures. Evaluate technical specifications to identify equipment or systems best suited for intended use and possible purchase, based on specifications, user needs, or technical requirements. Study technical manuals or attend training sessions provided by equipment manufacturers to maintain current knowledge. Compute power and space requirements for installing medical, dental, or related equipment and install units to manufacturers' specifications. Supervise or advise subordinate personnel. Fabricate, dress down, or substitute parts or major new items to modify equipment to meet unique operational or research needs, working from job orders, sketches, modification orders, samples, or discussions with operating officials. Repair shop equipment, metal furniture, or hospital equipment, including welding broken parts or replacing missing parts, or bring item into local shop for major repairs. Make computations relating to load requirements of wiring or equipment, using algebraic expressions and standard formulas.
49-9063| Musical Instrument Repairers and Tuners|Play instruments to evaluate their sound quality and to locate any defects. Adjust string tensions to tune instruments, using hand tools and electronic tuning devices. Disassemble instruments and parts for repair and adjustment. Inspect instruments to locate defects, and to determine their value or the level of restoration required. Repair cracks in wood or metal instruments, using pinning wire, lathes, fillers, clamps, or soldering irons. Reassemble instruments following repair, using hand tools and power tools and glue, hair, yarn, resin, or clamps, and lubricate instruments as necessary. Compare instrument pitches with tuning tool pitches to tune instruments. String instruments, and adjust trusses and bridges of instruments to obtain specified string tensions and heights. Repair or replace musical instrument parts and components, such as strings, bridges, felts, and keys, using hand and power tools. Polish instruments, using rags and polishing compounds, buffing wheels, or burnishing tools. Shape old parts and replacement parts to improve tone or intonation, using hand tools, lathes, or soldering irons. Make wood replacement parts, using woodworking machines and hand tools. Mix and measure glue that will be used for instrument repair. Align pads and keys on reed or wind instruments. Adjust felt hammers on pianos to increase tonal mellowness or brilliance, using sanding paddles, lacquer, or needles. Solder posts and parts to hold them in their proper places. Remove dents and burrs from metal instruments, using mallets and burnishing tools. Wash metal instruments in lacquer-stripping and cyanide solutions to remove lacquer and tarnish. Test tubes and pickups in electronic amplifier units, and solder parts and connections as necessary. Refinish instruments to protect and decorate them, using hand tools, buffing tools, and varnish. Deliver pianos to purchasers or to locations of their use. Cut out sections around cracks on percussion instruments to prevent cracks from advancing, using shears or grinding wheels. Refinish and polish piano cabinets or cases to prepare them for sale. Solder or weld frames of mallet instruments and metal drum parts. Remove drumheads by removing tension rods with drum keys and cutting tools. Assemble bars onto percussion instruments. Remove irregularities from tuning pins, strings, and hammers of pianos, using wood blocks or filing tools. Travel to locations such as churches and concert halls to work on pipe organs. Repair breaks in percussion instruments such as drums and cymbals, using drill presses, power saws, glue, clamps, grinding wheels, or other hand tools.
49-9064| Watch Repairers|Oil moving parts of timepieces. Repair or replace broken, damaged, or worn parts on timepieces, using lathes, drill presses, and hand tools. Clean, rinse, and dry timepiece parts, using solutions and ultrasonic or mechanical watch-cleaning machines. Disassemble timepieces and inspect them for defective, worn, misaligned, or rusty parts, using loupes. Reassemble timepieces, replacing glass faces and batteries, before returning them to customers. Test timepiece accuracy and performance, using meters and other electronic instruments. Fabricate parts for watches and clocks, using small lathes and other machines. Estimate repair costs and timepiece values. Perform regular adjustment and maintenance on timepieces, watch cases, and watch bands. Adjust timing regulators, using truing calipers, watch-rate recorders, and tweezers. Record quantities and types of timepieces repaired, serial and model numbers of items, work performed, and charges for repairs. Gather information from customers about a timepiece's problems and its service history. Test and replace batteries and other electronic components. Demagnetize mechanisms, using demagnetizing machines.
49-9071| Maintenance and Repair Workers, General|Inspect, operate, or test machinery or equipment to diagnose machine malfunctions. Dismantle machines, equipment, or devices to access and remove defective parts, using hoists, cranes, hand tools, or power tools. Perform routine maintenance, such as inspecting drives, motors, or belts, checking fluid levels, replacing filters, or doing other preventive maintenance actions. Diagnose mechanical problems and determine how to correct them, checking blueprints, repair manuals, or parts catalogs, as necessary. Repair machines, equipment, or structures, using tools such as hammers, hoists, saws, drills, wrenches, or equipment such as precision measuring instruments or electrical or electronic testing devices. Maintain or repair specialized equipment or machinery located in cafeterias, laundries, hospitals, stores, offices, or factories. Assemble, install, or repair wiring, electrical or electronic components, pipe systems, plumbing, machinery, or equipment. Clean or lubricate shafts, bearings, gears, or other parts of machinery. Adjust functional parts of devices or control instruments, using hand tools, levels, plumb bobs, or straightedges. Order parts, supplies, or equipment from catalogs or suppliers. Plan and lay out repair work, using diagrams, drawings, blueprints, maintenance manuals, or schematic diagrams. Perform general cleaning duties of buildings or properties. Paint or repair roofs, windows, doors, floors, woodwork, plaster, drywall, or other parts of building structures. Operate cutting torches or welding equipment to cut or join metal parts. Record type and cost of maintenance or repair work. Assemble boilers at installation sites, using tools such as levels, plumb bobs, hammers, torches, or other hand tools. Test and treat water supply. Perform routine maintenance on boilers, such as replacing burners or hoses, installing replacement parts, or reinforcing structural weaknesses to ensure optimal boiler efficiency. Install equipment to improve the energy or operational efficiency of residential or commercial buildings. Set up and operate machine tools to repair or fabricate machine parts, jigs, fixtures, or tools. Train or manage maintenance personnel or subcontractors. Align and balance new equipment after installation. Provide groundskeeping services, such as landscaping or snow removal. Inspect used parts to determine changes in dimensional requirements, using rules, calipers, micrometers, or other measuring instruments. Fabricate or repair counters, benches, partitions, or other wooden structures, such as sheds or outbuildings. Position, attach, or blow insulating materials to prevent energy losses from buildings, pipes, or other structures or objects. Estimate costs to repair machinery, equipment, or building structures. Grind and reseat valves, using valve-grinding machines.
49-9081| Wind Turbine Service Technicians|Diagnose problems involving wind turbine generators or control systems. Climb wind turbine towers to inspect, maintain, or repair equipment. Test electrical components of wind systems with devices such as voltage testers, multimeters, oscilloscopes, infrared testers, or fiber optic equipment. Start or restart wind turbine generator systems to ensure proper operations. Troubleshoot or repair mechanical, hydraulic, or electrical malfunctions related to variable pitch systems, variable speed control systems, converter systems, or related components. Maintain tool and spare parts inventories required for repair, installation, or replacement services. Perform routine maintenance on wind turbine equipment, underground transmission systems, wind fields substations, or fiber optic sensing and control systems. Test structures, controls, or mechanical, hydraulic, or electrical systems, according to test plans or in coordination with engineers. Collect turbine data for testing or research and analysis. Inspect or repair fiberglass turbine blades. Train end-users, distributors, installers, or other technicians in wind commissioning, testing, or other technical procedures. Operate manufacturing equipment to fabricate wind turbines. Assist in assembly of individual wind generators or construction of wind farms.
49-9091| Coin, Vending, and Amusement Machine Servicers and Repairers|Fill machines with products, ingredients, money, and other supplies. Keep records of merchandise distributed and money collected. Collect coins and bills from machines, prepare invoices, and settle accounts with concessionaires. Make service calls to maintain and repair machines. Inspect machines and meters to determine causes of malfunctions and fix minor problems such as jammed bills or stuck products. Test machines to determine proper functioning. Contact other repair personnel or make arrangements for the removal of machines in cases where major repairs are required. Clean and oil machine parts. Record transaction information on forms or logs, and notify designated personnel of discrepancies. Adjust machine pressure gauges and thermostats. Maintain records of machine maintenance and repair. Replace malfunctioning parts, such as worn magnetic heads on automatic teller machine (ATM) card readers. Adjust and repair coin, vending, or amusement machines and meters and replace defective mechanical and electrical parts, using hand tools, soldering irons, and diagrams. Order parts needed for machine repairs. Disassemble and assemble machines, according to specifications and using hand and power tools. Install machines, making the necessary water and electrical connections in compliance with codes. Refer to manuals and wiring diagrams to gather information needed to repair machines. Transport machines to installation sites. Prepare repair cost estimates.
49-9092| Commercial Divers|Take appropriate safety precautions, such as monitoring dive lengths and depths and registering with authorities before diving expeditions begin. Check and maintain diving equipment, such as helmets, masks, air tanks, harnesses, or gauges. Communicate with workers on the surface while underwater, using signal lines or telephones. Descend into water with the aid of diver helpers, using scuba gear or diving suits. Obtain information about diving tasks and environmental conditions. Supervise or train other divers, including hobby divers. Inspect the condition of underwater steel or wood structures. Inspect and test docks, ships, buoyage systems, plant intakes or outflows, or underwater pipelines, cables, or sewers, using closed circuit television, still photography, and testing equipment. Repair ships, bridge foundations, or other structures below the water line, using caulk, bolts, and hand tools. Recover objects by placing rigging around sunken objects, hooking rigging to crane lines, and operating winches, derricks, or cranes to raise objects. Operate underwater video, sonar, recording, or related equipment to investigate underwater structures or marine life. Take test samples or photographs to assess the condition of vessels or structures. Cut and weld steel, using underwater welding equipment, jigs, and supports. Install, inspect, clean, or repair piping or valves. Carry out non-destructive testing, such as tests for cracks on the legs of oil rigs at sea. Install pilings or footings for piers or bridges. Salvage wrecked ships or their cargo, using pneumatic power velocity and hydraulic tools and explosive charges, when necessary. Remove obstructions from strainers or marine railway or launching ways, using pneumatic or power hand tools. Set or guide placement of pilings or sandbags to provide support for structures such as docks, bridges, cofferdams, or platforms. Perform activities related to underwater search and rescue, salvage, recovery, or cleanup operations. Perform offshore oil or gas exploration or extraction duties, such as conducting underwater surveys or repairing and maintaining drilling rigs or platforms. Drill holes in rock and rig explosives for underwater demolitions. Remove rubbish or pollution from the sea. Set up dive sites for recreational instruction.
49-9093| Fabric Menders, Except Garment|Measure and hem curtains, garments, and canvas coverings to size, using tape measures. Operate sewing machines to restitch defective seams, sew up holes, or replace components of fabric articles. Spread out articles or materials and examine them for holes, tears, worn areas, and other defects. Stamp grommets into canvas, using mallets and punches or eyelet machines. Trim edges of cut or torn fabric, using scissors or knives, and stitch trimmed edges together. Patch holes, sew tears and ripped seams, or darn defects in items, using needles and thread or sewing machines. Check repaired and repacked survival equipment to ensure that it meets specifications. Sew labels and emblems onto articles for identification. Repair holes by weaving thread over them, using needles.
49-9094| Locksmiths and Safe Repairers|Cut new or duplicate keys, using keycutting machines. Cut new or duplicate keys using impressions or code key machines. Disassemble mechanical or electrical locking devices, and repair or replace worn tumblers, springs, and other parts, using hand tools. Keep records of company locks and keys. Set up and maintain master key systems. Insert new or repaired tumblers into locks to change combinations. Install door hardware such as locks and closers. Open safe locks by drilling. Move picklocks in cylinders to open door locks without keys. Install alarm and electronic access systems. Unlock cars and other vehicles. Repair and adjust safes, vault doors, and vault components, using hand tools, lathes, drill presses, and welding and acetylene cutting apparatus.
49-9095| Manufactured Building and Mobile Home Installers|Seal open sides of modular units to prepare them for shipment, using polyethylene sheets, nails, and hammers. Move and set up mobile homes or prefabricated buildings on owners' lots or at mobile home parks. Inspect, examine, and test the operation of parts or systems to evaluate operating condition and to determine if repairs are needed. Connect water hoses to inlet pipes of plumbing systems, and test operation of plumbing fixtures. Remove damaged exterior panels, repair and replace structural frame members, and seal leaks, using hand tools. List parts needed, estimate costs, and plan work procedures, using parts lists, technical manuals, and diagrams. Confer with customers or read work orders to determine the nature and extent of damage to units. Install, repair, and replace units, fixtures, appliances, and other items and systems in mobile and modular homes, prefabricated buildings, or travel trailers, using hand tools or power tools. Reset hardware, using chisels, mallets, and screwdrivers. Repair leaks in plumbing or gas lines, using caulking compounds and plastic or copper pipe. Locate and repair frayed wiring, broken connections, or incorrect wiring, using ohmmeters, soldering irons, tape, and hand tools. Open and close doors, windows, and drawers to test their operation, trimming edges to fit, using jackplanes or drawknives. Connect electrical systems to outside power sources and activate switches to test the operation of appliances and light fixtures. Refinish wood surfaces on cabinets, doors, moldings, and floors, using power sanders, putty, spray equipment, brushes, paints, or varnishes.
49-9096| Riggers|Signal or verbally direct workers engaged in hoisting and moving loads to ensure safety of workers and materials. Test rigging to ensure safety and reliability. Attach loads to rigging to provide support or prepare them for moving, using hand and power tools. Select gear such as cables, pulleys, and winches, according to load weights and sizes, facilities, and work schedules. Control movement of heavy equipment through narrow openings or confined spaces, using chainfalls, gin poles, gallows frames, and other equipment. Tilt, dip, and turn suspended loads to maneuver over, under, or around obstacles, using multi-point suspension techniques. Align, level, and anchor machinery. Fabricate, set up, and repair rigging, supporting structures, hoists, and pulling gear, using hand and power tools. Manipulate rigging lines, hoists, and pulling gear to move or support materials such as heavy equipment, ships, or theatrical sets. Attach pulleys and blocks to fixed overhead structures such as beams, ceilings, and gin pole booms, using bolts and clamps. Dismantle and store rigging equipment after use. Install ground rigging for yarding lines, attaching chokers to logs and to the lines. Clean and dress machine surfaces and component parts.
49-9097| Signal and Track Switch Repairers|Install, inspect, maintain, and repair various railroad service equipment on the road or in the shop, including railroad signal systems. Inspect and test operation, mechanical parts, and circuitry of gate crossings, signals, and signal equipment such as interlocks and hotbox detectors. Inspect switch-controlling mechanisms on trolley wires and in track beds, using hand tools and test equipment. Drive motor vehicles to job sites. Tighten loose bolts, using wrenches, and test circuits and connections by opening and closing gates. Inspect electrical units of railroad grade crossing gates and repair loose bolts and defective electrical connections and parts. Replace defective wiring, broken lenses, or burned-out light bulbs. Record and report information about mileage or track inspected, repairs performed, and equipment requiring replacement. Inspect, maintain, and replace batteries as needed. Lubricate moving parts on gate-crossing mechanisms and swinging signals. Clean lenses of lamps with cloths and solvents. Maintain high tension lines, de-energizing lines for power companies when repairs are requested. Test air lines and air cylinders on pneumatically operated gates.
49-9098| Helpers--Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Workers|Transfer tools, parts, equipment, and supplies to and from work stations and other areas. Disassemble broken or defective equipment to facilitate repair and reassemble equipment when repairs are complete. Install or replace machinery, equipment, and new or replacement parts and instruments, using hand or power tools. Examine and test machinery, equipment, components, and parts for defects to ensure proper functioning. Hold or supply tools, parts, equipment, and supplies for other workers. Position vehicles, machinery, equipment, physical structures, and other objects for assembly or installation, using hand tools, power tools, and moving equipment. Adjust, maintain, and repair tools, equipment, and machines, and assist more skilled workers with similar tasks. Adjust, connect, or disconnect wiring, piping, tubing, and other parts, using hand or power tools. Clean or lubricate vehicles, machinery, equipment, instruments, tools, work areas, and other objects, using hand tools, power tools, and cleaning equipment. Assemble and maintain physical structures, using hand or power tools. Tend and observe equipment and machinery to verify efficient and safe operation. Apply protective materials to equipment, components, and parts to prevent defects and corrosion. Order new parts to maintain inventory. Diagnose electrical problems and install and rewire electrical components. Prepare work stations for use by mechanics and repairers.
51-1011| First-Line Supervisors of Production and Operating Workers|Enforce safety and sanitation regulations. Direct and coordinate the activities of employees engaged in the production or processing of goods, such as inspectors, machine setters, and fabricators. Confer with other supervisors to coordinate operations and activities within or between departments. Plan and establish work schedules, assignments, and production sequences to meet production goals. Inspect materials, products, or equipment to detect defects or malfunctions. Observe work and monitor gauges, dials, and other indicators to ensure that operators conform to production or processing standards. Conduct employee training in equipment operations or work and safety procedures, or assign employee training to experienced workers. Interpret specifications, blueprints, job orders, and company policies and procedures for workers. Keep records of employees' attendance and hours worked. Read and analyze charts, work orders, production schedules, and other records and reports to determine production requirements and to evaluate current production estimates and outputs. Requisition materials, supplies, equipment parts, or repair services. Maintain operations data, such as time, production, and cost records, and prepare management reports of production results. Determine standards, budgets, production goals, and rates, based on company policies, equipment and labor availability, and workloads. Confer with management or subordinates to resolve worker problems, complaints, or grievances. Set up and adjust machines and equipment. Recommend or implement measures to motivate employees and to improve production methods, equipment performance, product quality, or efficiency. Recommend or execute personnel actions, such as hirings, evaluations, and promotions. Calculate labor and equipment requirements and production specifications, using standard formulas. Plan and develop new products and production processes.
51-2011| Aircraft Structure, Surfaces, Rigging, and Systems Assemblers|Assemble parts, fittings, or subassemblies on aircraft, using layout tools, hand tools, power tools, or fasteners, such as bolts, screws, rivets, or clamps. Read blueprints, illustrations, or specifications to determine layouts, sequences of operations, or identities or relationships of parts. Attach brackets, hinges, or clips to secure or support components or subassemblies, using bolts, screws, rivets, chemical bonding, or welding. Inspect or test installed units, parts, systems, or assemblies for fit, alignment, performance, defects, or compliance with standards, using measuring instruments or test equipment. Adjust, repair, rework, or replace parts or assemblies to ensure proper operation. Cut, trim, file, bend, or smooth parts to ensure proper fit and clearance. Fabricate parts needed for assembly or installation, using shop machinery or equipment. Layout and mark reference points and locations for installation of parts or components, using jigs, templates, or measuring and marking instruments. Clean, oil, or coat system components as necessary before assembly or attachment. Assemble prefabricated parts to form subassemblies. Set, align, adjust, or synchronize aircraft armament or rigging or control system components to established tolerances or requirements using sighting devices and hand tools. Join structural assemblies, such as wings, tails, or fuselage. Position and align subassemblies in jigs or fixtures, using measuring instruments and following blueprint lines and index points. Assemble prototypes or integrated-technology demonstrators of new or emerging environmental technologies for aircraft. Swage fittings onto cables, using swaging machines. Manually install structural assemblies or signal crane operators to position assemblies for joining. Align, fit, assemble, connect, or install system components, using jigs, fixtures, measuring instruments, hand tools, or power tools. Set up or operate machines or systems to crimp, cut, bend, form, swage, flare, bead, burr, or straighten tubing, according to specifications. Place and connect control cables to electronically controlled units, using hand tools, ring locks, cotter keys, threaded connectors, turnbuckles, or related devices. Install mechanical linkages and actuators, using tensiometers to verify tension of cables. Clean aircraft structures, parts, or components, using aqueous, semi-aqueous, aliphatic hydrocarbon, or organic solvent cleaning products or techniques to reduce carbon or other harmful emissions. Install accessories in swaging machines, using hand tools. Mark identifying information on tubing or cable assemblies, using etching devices, labels, rubber stamps, or other methods. Verify dimensions of cable assemblies or positions of fittings, using measuring instruments. Weld tubing and fittings or solder cable ends, using tack-welders, induction brazing chambers, or other equipment. Splice cables, using clamps and fittings, or reweave cable strands. Fit and fasten sheet metal coverings to surface areas or other sections of aircraft prior to welding or riveting. Capture or segregate waste material, such as aluminum swarf, machine cutting fluid, or solvents, for recycling or environmentally responsible disposal. Cut cables and tubing, using master templates, measuring instruments, and cable cutters or saws.
51-2021| Coil Winders, Tapers, and Finishers|Operate or tend wire-coiling machines to wind wire coils used in electrical components such as resistors and transformers, and in electrical equipment and instruments such as bobbins and generators. Review work orders and specifications to determine materials needed and types of parts to be processed. Cut, strip, and bend wire leads at ends of coils, using pliers and wire scrapers. Select and load materials such as workpieces, objects, and machine parts onto equipment used in coiling processes. Record production and operational data on specified forms. Attach, alter, and trim materials such as wire, insulation, and coils, using hand tools. Stop machines to remove completed components, using hand tools. Examine and test wired electrical components such as motors, armatures, and stators, using measuring devices, and record test results. Apply solutions or paints to wired electrical components, using hand tools, and bake components. Disassemble and assemble motors, and repair and maintain electrical components and machinery parts, using hand tools. Line slots with sheet insulation, and insert coils into slots.
51-2022| Electrical and Electronic Equipment Assemblers|Read and interpret schematic drawings, diagrams, blueprints, specifications, work orders, or reports to determine materials requirements or assembly instructions. Assemble electrical or electronic systems or support structures and install components, units, subassemblies, wiring, or assembly casings, using rivets, bolts, soldering or micro-welding equipment. Adjust, repair, or replace electrical or electronic component parts to correct defects and to ensure conformance to specifications. Position, align, or adjust workpieces or electrical parts to facilitate wiring or assembly. Explain assembly procedures or techniques to other workers. Clean parts, using cleaning solutions, air hoses, and cloths. Drill or tap holes in specified equipment locations to mount control units or to provide openings for elements, wiring, or instruments. Fabricate or form parts, coils, or structures according to specifications, using drills, calipers, cutters, or saws. Confer with supervisors or engineers to plan or review work activities or to resolve production problems. Inspect or test wiring installations, assemblies, or circuits for resistance factors or for operation and record results. Mark and tag components so that stock inventory can be tracked and identified. Measure and adjust voltages to specified values to determine operational accuracy of instruments. Complete, review, or maintain production, time, or component waste reports. Distribute materials, supplies, or subassemblies to work areas. Pack finished assemblies for shipment and transport them to storage areas, using hoists or handtrucks. Instruct customers in the installation, repair, or maintenance of products. Paint structures as specified, using paint sprayers.
51-2023| Electromechanical Equipment Assemblers|Inspect, test, and adjust completed units to ensure that units meet specifications, tolerances, and customer order requirements. Assemble parts or units, and position, align, and fasten units to assemblies, subassemblies, or frames, using hand tools and power tools. Position, align, and adjust parts for proper fit and assembly. Connect cables, tubes, and wiring, according to specifications. Attach name plates and mark identifying information on parts. Read blueprints and specifications to determine component parts and assembly sequences of electromechanical units. Disassemble units to replace parts or to crate them for shipping. Measure parts to determine tolerances, using precision measuring instruments such as micrometers, calipers, and verniers. Clean and lubricate parts and subassemblies, using grease paddles or oilcans. Drill, tap, ream, countersink, and spot-face bolt holes in parts, using drill presses and portable power drills. File, lap, and buff parts to fit, using hand and power tools. Pack or fold insulation between panels. Operate or tend automated assembling equipment, such as robotics and fixed automation equipment. Operate small cranes to transport or position large parts.
51-2031| Engine and Other Machine Assemblers|Read and interpret assembly blueprints or specifications manuals and plan assembly or building operations. Inspect, operate, and test completed products to verify functioning, machine capabilities, or conformance to customer specifications. Position or align components for assembly, manually or using hoists. Set and verify parts clearances. Verify conformance of parts to stock lists or blueprints, using measuring instruments, such as calipers, gauges, or micrometers. Fasten or install piping, fixtures, or wiring and electrical components to form assemblies or subassemblies, using hand tools, rivet guns, or welding equipment. Remove rough spots and smooth surfaces to fit, trim, or clean parts, using hand tools or power tools. Lay out and drill, ream, tap, or cut parts for assembly. Rework, repair, or replace damaged parts or assemblies. Assemble systems of gears by aligning and meshing gears in gearboxes. Set up and operate metalworking machines, such as milling or grinding machines, to shape or fabricate parts. Maintain and lubricate parts or components.
51-2041| Structural Metal Fabricators and Fitters|Verify conformance of workpieces to specifications, using squares, rulers, and measuring tapes. Align and fit parts according to specifications, using jacks, turnbuckles, wedges, drift pins, pry bars, and hammers. Move parts into position, manually or with hoists or cranes. Position, align, fit, and weld parts to form complete units or subunits, following blueprints and layout specifications, and using jigs, welding torches, and hand tools. Study engineering drawings and blueprints to determine materials requirements and task sequences. Set up and operate fabricating machines, such as brakes, rolls, shears, flame cutters, grinders, and drill presses, to bend, cut, form, punch, drill, or otherwise form and assemble metal components. Lay out and examine metal stock or workpieces to be processed to ensure that specifications are met. Tack-weld fitted parts together. Lift or move materials and finished products, using large cranes. Remove high spots and cut bevels, using hand files, portable grinders, and cutting torches. Mark reference points onto floors or face blocks and transpose them to workpieces, using measuring devices, squares, chalk, and soapstone. Set up face blocks, jigs, and fixtures. Position or tighten braces, jacks, clamps, ropes, or bolt straps, or bolt parts in position for welding or riveting. Locate and mark workpiece bending and cutting lines, allowing for stock thickness, machine and welding shrinkage, and other component specifications. Erect ladders and scaffolding to fit together large assemblies. Design and construct templates and fixtures, using hand tools. Hammer, chip, and grind workpieces to cut, bend, and straighten metal. Straighten warped or bent parts, using sledges, hand torches, straightening presses, or bulldozers. Smooth workpiece edges and fix taps, tubes, and valves. Preheat workpieces to make them malleable, using hand torches or furnaces. Heat-treat parts, using acetylene torches. Install boilers, containers, and other structures. Direct welders to build up low spots or short pieces with weld.
51-2091| Fiberglass Laminators and Fabricators|Release air bubbles and smooth seams, using rollers. Spray chopped fiberglass, resins, and catalysts onto prepared molds or dies using pneumatic spray guns with chopper attachments. Select precut fiberglass mats, cloth, and wood-bracing materials as required by projects being assembled. Pat or press layers of saturated mat or cloth into place on molds, using brushes or hands, and smooth out wrinkles and air bubbles with hands or squeegees. Mix catalysts into resins, and saturate cloth and mats with mixtures, using brushes. Bond wood reinforcing strips to decks and cabin structures of watercraft, using resin-saturated fiberglass. Check completed products for conformance to specifications and for defects by measuring with rulers or micrometers, by checking them visually, or by tapping them to detect bubbles or dead spots. Trim excess materials from molds, using hand shears or trimming knives. Repair or modify damaged or defective glass-fiber parts, checking thicknesses, densities, and contours to ensure a close fit after repair. Cure materials by letting them set at room temperature, placing them under heat lamps, or baking them in ovens. Apply layers of plastic resin to mold surfaces prior to placement of fiberglass mats, repeating layers until products have the desired thicknesses and plastics have jelled. Mask off mold areas not to be laminated, using cellophane, wax paper, masking tape, or special sprays containing mold-release substances. Apply lacquers and waxes to mold surfaces to facilitate assembly and removal of laminated parts. Check all dies, templates, and cutout patterns to be used in the manufacturing process to ensure that they conform to dimensional data, photographs, blueprints, samples, or customer specifications. Inspect, clean, and assemble molds before beginning work. Trim cured materials by sawing them with diamond-impregnated cutoff wheels.
51-2092|Team Assemblers|Perform quality checks on products and parts. Package finished products and prepare them for shipment. Rotate through all the tasks required in a particular production process. Shovel, sweep, or otherwise clean work areas. Review work orders and blueprints to ensure work is performed according to specifications. Complete production reports to communicate team production level to management. Determine work assignments and procedures. Maintain production equipment and machinery. Provide assistance in the production of wiring assemblies. Supervise assemblers and train employees on job procedures. Operate machinery and heavy equipment, such as forklifts.
51-2093| Timing Device Assemblers and Adjusters|Assemble and install components of timepieces to complete mechanisms, using watchmakers' tools and loupes. Observe operation of timepiece parts and subassemblies to determine accuracy of movement, and to diagnose causes of defects. Test operation and fit of timepiece parts and subassemblies, using electronic testing equipment, tweezers, watchmakers' tools, and loupes. Replace specified parts to repair malfunctioning timepieces, using watchmakers' tools, loupes, and holding fixtures. Disassemble timepieces such as watches, clocks, and chronometers so that repairs can be made. Clean and lubricate timepiece parts and assemblies, using solvents, buff sticks, and oil. Examine components of timepieces such as watches, clocks, or chronometers for defects, using loupes or microscopes. Bend parts, such as hairsprings, pallets, barrel covers, and bridges, to correct deficiencies in truing or endshake, using tweezers. Change timing weights on balance wheels to correct deficient timing. Adjust sizes or positioning of timepiece parts to achieve specified fit or function, using calipers, fixtures, and loupes. Mount hairsprings and balance wheel assemblies between jaws of truing calipers. Estimate spaces between collets and first inner coils to determine if spaces are within acceptable limits. Bend inner coils of springs away from or toward collets, using tweezers, to locate centers of collets in centers of springs, and to correct errors resulting from faulty colleting of coils. Turn wheels of calipers and examine springs, using loupes, to determine if center coils appear as perfect circles. Examine and adjust hairspring assemblies to ensure horizontal and circular alignment of hairsprings, using calipers, loupes, and watchmakers' tools. Review blueprints, sketches, or work orders to gather information about tasks to be completed. Tighten or replace loose jewels, using watchmakers' tools.
51-3011| Bakers|Check products for quality and identify damaged or expired goods. Set oven temperatures and place items into hot ovens for baking. Combine measured ingredients in bowls of mixing, blending, or cooking machinery. Place dough in pans, molds, or on sheets and bake in production ovens or on grills. Set time and speed controls for mixing machines, blending machines, or steam kettles so that ingredients will be mixed or cooked according to instructions. Measure or weigh flour or other ingredients to prepare batters, doughs, fillings, or icings, using scales or graduated containers. Observe color of products being baked and adjust oven temperatures, humidity, or conveyor speeds accordingly. Check the quality of raw materials to ensure that standards and specifications are met. Check equipment to ensure that it meets health and safety regulations and perform maintenance or cleaning, as necessary. Adapt the quantity of ingredients to match the amount of items to be baked. Apply glazes, icings, or other toppings to baked goods, using spatulas or brushes. Decorate baked goods, such as cakes or pastries. Roll, knead, cut, or shape dough to form sweet rolls, pie crusts, tarts, cookies, or other products. Direct or coordinate bakery deliveries. Order or receive supplies or equipment. Prepare or maintain inventory or production records. Operate slicing or wrapping machines. Develop new recipes for baked goods.
51-3021| Butchers and Meat Cutters|Wrap, weigh, label and price cuts of meat. Prepare and place meat cuts and products in display counter, so they will appear attractive and catch the shopper's eye. Prepare special cuts of meat ordered by customers. Cut, trim, bone, tie, and grind meats, such as beef, pork, poultry, and fish, to prepare meat in cooking form. Receive, inspect, and store meat upon delivery, to ensure meat quality. Shape, lace, and tie roasts, using boning knife, skewer, and twine. Estimate requirements and order or requisition meat supplies to maintain inventories. Supervise other butchers or meat cutters. Record quantity of meat received and issued to cooks or keep records of meat sales. Negotiate with representatives from supply companies to determine order details. Cure, smoke, tenderize and preserve meat. Total sales, and collect money from customers.
51-3022| Meat, Poultry, and Fish Cutters and Trimmers|Use knives, cleavers, meat saws, bandsaws, or other equipment to perform meat cutting and trimming. Clean, trim, slice, and section carcasses for future processing. Cut and trim meat to prepare for packing. Remove parts, such as skin, feathers, scales or bones, from carcass. Inspect meat products for defects, bruises or blemishes and remove them along with any excess fat. Produce hamburger meat and meat trimmings. Process primal parts into cuts that are ready for retail use. Obtain and distribute specified meat or carcass. Separate meats and byproducts into specified containers and seal containers. Weigh meats and tag containers for weight and contents. Clean and salt hides. Prepare sausages, luncheon meats, hot dogs, and other fabricated meat products, using meat trimmings and hamburger meat. Prepare ready-to-heat foods by filleting meat or fish or cutting it into bite-sized pieces, preparing and adding vegetables or applying sauces or breading.
51-3023| Slaughterers and Meat Packers|Remove bones, and cut meat into standard cuts in preparation for marketing. Cut, trim, skin, sort, and wash viscera of slaughtered animals to separate edible portions from offal. Slaughter animals in accordance with religious law, and determine that carcasses meet specified religious standards. Slit open, eviscerate, and trim carcasses of slaughtered animals. Tend assembly lines, performing a few of the many cuts needed to process a carcass. Sever jugular veins to drain blood and facilitate slaughtering. Shave or singe and defeather carcasses, and wash them in preparation for further processing or packaging. Trim, clean, or cure animal hides. Shackle hind legs of animals to raise them for slaughtering or skinning. Skin sections of animals or whole animals. Trim head meat, and sever or remove parts of animals' heads or skulls. Saw, split, or scribe carcasses into smaller portions to facilitate handling. Grind meat into hamburger, and into trimmings used to prepare sausages, luncheon meats, and other meat products. Stun animals prior to slaughtering. Wrap dressed carcasses or meat cuts.
51-3091| Food and Tobacco Roasting, Baking, and Drying Machine Operators and Tenders|Observe, feel, taste, or otherwise examine products during and after processing to ensure conformance to standards. Observe temperature, humidity, pressure gauges, and product samples and adjust controls, such as thermostats and valves, to maintain prescribed operating conditions for specific stages. Operate or tend equipment that roasts, bakes, dries, or cures food items such as cocoa and coffee beans, grains, nuts, and bakery products. Set temperature and time controls, light ovens, burners, driers, or roasters, and start equipment, such as conveyors, cylinders, blowers, driers, or pumps. Observe flow of materials and listen for machine malfunctions, such as jamming or spillage, and notify supervisors if corrective actions fail. Record production data, such as weight and amount of product processed, type of product, and time and temperature of processing. Weigh or measure products, using scale hoppers or scale conveyors. Read work orders to determine quantities and types of products to be baked, dried, or roasted. Take product samples during or after processing for laboratory analyses. Fill or remove product from trays, carts, hoppers, or equipment, using scoops, peels, or shovels, or by hand. Open valves, gates, or chutes or use shovels to load or remove products from ovens or other equipment. Clean equipment with steam, hot water, and hoses. Clear or dislodge blockages in bins, screens, or other equipment, using poles, brushes, or mallets. Push racks or carts to transfer products to storage, cooling stations, or the next stage of processing. Start conveyors to move roasted grain to cooling pans and agitate grain with rakes as blowers force air through perforated bottoms of pans. Smooth out products in bins, pans, trays, or conveyors, using rakes or shovels. Install equipment, such as spray units, cutting blades, or screens, using hand tools. Test products for moisture content, using moisture meters. Signal coworkers to synchronize flow of materials.
51-3092| Food Batchmakers|Record production and test data for each food product batch, such as the ingredients used, temperature, test results, and time cycle. Follow recipes to produce food products of specified flavor, texture, clarity, bouquet, or color. Set up, operate, and tend equipment that cooks, mixes, blends, or processes ingredients in the manufacturing of food products, according to formulas or recipes. Mix or blend ingredients, according to recipes, using a paddle or an agitator, or by controlling vats that heat and mix ingredients. Clean and sterilize vats and factory processing areas. Select and measure or weigh ingredients, using English or metric measures and balance scales. Turn valve controls to start equipment and to adjust operation to maintain product quality. Press switches and turn knobs to start, adjust, and regulate equipment such as beaters, extruders, discharge pipes, and salt pumps. Observe gauges and thermometers to determine if the mixing chamber temperature is within specified limits, and turn valves to control the temperature. Observe and listen to equipment to detect possible malfunctions, such as leaks or plugging, and report malfunctions or undesirable tastes to supervisors. Fill processing or cooking containers, such as kettles, rotating cookers, pressure cookers, or vats, with ingredients, by opening valves, by starting pumps or injectors, or by hand. Grade food products according to government regulations or according to type, color, bouquet, and moisture content. Test food product samples for moisture content, acidity level, specific gravity, or butter-fat content, and continue processing until desired levels are reached. Modify cooking and forming operations based on the results of sampling processes, adjusting time cycles and ingredients to achieve desired qualities, such as firmness or texture. Inspect vats after cleaning to ensure that fermentable residue has been removed. Examine, feel, and taste product samples during production to evaluate quality, color, texture, flavor, and bouquet, and document the results. Determine mixing sequences, based on knowledge of temperature effects and of the solubility of specific ingredients. Inspect and pack the final product. Manipulate products, by hand or using machines, to separate, spread, knead, spin, cast, cut, pull, or roll products. Give directions to other workers who are assisting in the batchmaking process. Operate refining machines to reduce the particle size of cooked batches. Formulate or modify recipes for specific kinds of food products. Place products on carts or conveyors to transfer them to the next stage of processing. Cool food product batches on slabs or in water-cooled kettles. Homogenize or pasteurize material to prevent separation or to obtain prescribed butterfat content, using a homogenizing device.
51-3093| Food Cooking Machine Operators and Tenders|Tend or operate and control equipment such as kettles, cookers, vats and tanks, and boilers, to cook ingredients or prepare products for further processing. Set temperature, pressure, and time controls, and start conveyers, machines, or pumps. Clean, wash, and sterilize equipment and cooking area, using water hoses, cleaning or sterilizing solutions, or rinses. Observe gauges, dials, and product characteristics, and adjust controls to maintain appropriate temperature, pressure, and flow of ingredients. Listen for malfunction alarms, and shut down equipment and notify supervisors when necessary. Remove cooked material or products from equipment. Turn valves or start pumps to add ingredients or drain products from equipment and to transfer products for storage, cooling, or further processing. Measure or weigh ingredients, using scales or measuring containers. Read work orders, recipes, or formulas to determine cooking times and temperatures, and ingredient specifications. Collect and examine product samples during production to test them for quality, color, content, consistency, viscosity, acidity, or specific gravity. Notify or signal other workers to operate equipment or when processing is complete. Record production and test data, such as processing steps, temperature and steam readings, cooking time, batches processed, and test results. Admit required amounts of water, steam, cooking oils, or compressed air into equipment, such as by opening water valves to cool mixtures to the desired consistency. Pour, dump, or load prescribed quantities of ingredients or products into cooking equipment, manually or using a hoist. Place products on conveyors or carts, and monitor product flow. Activate agitators and paddles to mix or stir ingredients, stopping machines when ingredients are thoroughly mixed. Operate auxiliary machines and equipment, such as grinders, canners, and molding presses, to prepare or further process products.
51-4011| Computer-Controlled Machine Tool Operators, Metal and Plastic|Measure dimensions of finished workpieces to ensure conformance to specifications, using precision measuring instruments, templates, and fixtures. Mount, install, align, and secure tools, attachments, fixtures, and workpieces on machines, using hand tools and precision measuring instruments. Stop machines to remove finished workpieces or to change tooling, setup, or workpiece placement, according to required machining sequences. Transfer commands from servers to computer numerical control (CNC) modules, using computer network links. Check to ensure that workpieces are properly lubricated and cooled during machine operation. Set up and operate computer-controlled machines or robots to perform one or more machine functions on metal or plastic workpieces. Insert control instructions into machine control units to start operation. Review program specifications or blueprints to determine and set machine operations and sequencing, finished workpiece dimensions, or numerical control sequences. Listen to machines during operation to detect sounds such as those made by dull cutting tools or excessive vibration and adjust machines to compensate for problems. Remove and replace dull cutting tools. Monitor machine operation and control panel displays and compare readings to specifications to detect malfunctions. Enter commands or load control media, such as tapes, cards, or disks, into machine controllers to retrieve programmed instructions. Modify cutting programs to account for problems encountered during operation and save modified programs. Calculate machine speed and feed ratios and the size and position of cuts. Adjust machine feed and speed, change cutting tools, or adjust machine controls when automatic programming is faulty or if machines malfunction. Lift workpieces to machines manually or with hoists or cranes. Stack or load finished items or place items on conveyor systems. Control coolant systems. Maintain machines and remove and replace broken or worn machine tools, using hand tools. Confer with supervisors or programmers to resolve machine malfunctions or production errors or to obtain approval to continue production. Implement changes to machine programs and enter new specifications, using computers. Set up future jobs while machines are operating. Clean machines, tooling, or parts, using solvents or solutions and rags. Input initial part dimensions into machine control panels. Write simple programs for computer-controlled machine tools. Lay out and mark areas of parts to be shot-peened and fill hoppers with shot. Examine electronic components for defects or completeness of laser-beam trimming, using microscopes.
51-4012| Computer Numerically Controlled Machine Tool Programmers, Metal and Plastic|Determine the sequence of machine operations, and select the proper cutting tools needed to machine workpieces into the desired shapes. Revise programs or tapes to eliminate errors, and retest programs to check that problems have been solved. Analyze job orders, drawings, blueprints, specifications, printed circuit board pattern films, and design data to calculate dimensions, tool selection, machine speeds, and feed rates. Determine reference points, machine cutting paths, or hole locations, and compute angular and linear dimensions, radii, and curvatures. Observe machines on trial runs or conduct computer simulations to ensure that programs and machinery will function properly and produce items that meet specifications. Compare encoded tapes or computer printouts with original part specifications and blueprints to verify accuracy of instructions. Enter coordinates of hole locations into program memories by depressing pedals or buttons of programmers. Write programs in the language of a machine's controller and store programs on media such as punch tapes, magnetic tapes, or disks. Modify existing programs to enhance efficiency. Enter computer commands to store or retrieve parts patterns, graphic displays, or programs that transfer data to other media. Prepare geometric layouts from graphic displays, using computer-assisted drafting software or drafting instruments and graph paper. Write instruction sheets and cutter lists for a machine's controller to guide setup and encode numerical control tapes. Sort shop orders into groups to maximize materials utilization and minimize machine setup time. Draw machine tool paths on pattern film, using colored markers and following guidelines for tool speed and efficiency. Align and secure pattern film on reference tables of optical programmers, and observe enlarger scope views of printed circuit boards.
51-4021| Extruding and Drawing Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Measure and examine extruded products to locate defects and to check for conformance to specifications, adjusting controls as necessary to alter products. Determine setup procedures and select machine dies and parts, according to specifications. Start machines and set controls to regulate vacuum, air pressure, sizing rings, and temperature, and to synchronize speed of extrusion. Reel extruded products into rolls of specified lengths and weights. Install dies, machine screws, and sizing rings on machines that extrude thermoplastic or metal materials. Change dies on extruding machines according to production line changes. Clean work areas. Troubleshoot, maintain, and make minor repairs to equipment. Weigh and mix pelletized, granular, or powdered thermoplastic materials and coloring pigments. Test physical properties of products with testing devices such as acid-bath testers, burst testers, and impact testers. Load machine hoppers with mixed materials, using augers, or stuff rolls of plastic dough into machine cylinders. Maintain an inventory of materials. Adjust controls to draw or press metal into specified shapes and diameters. Replace worn dies when products vary from specifications. Select nozzles, spacers, and wire guides, according to diameters and lengths of rods. Operate shearing mechanisms to cut rods to specified lengths.
51-4022| Forging Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Measure and inspect machined parts to ensure conformance to product specifications. Read work orders or blueprints to determine specified tolerances and sequences of operations for machine setup. Start machines to produce sample workpieces, and observe operations to detect machine malfunctions and to verify that machine setups conform to specifications. Remove dies from machines when production runs are finished. Turn handles or knobs to set pressures and depths of ram strokes and to synchronize machine operations. Confer with other workers about machine setups and operational specifications. Repair, maintain, and replace parts on dies. Set up, operate, or tend presses and forging machines to perform hot or cold forging by flattening, straightening, bending, cutting, piercing, or other operations to taper, shape, or form metal. Position and move metal wires or workpieces through a series of dies that compress and shape stock to form die impressions. Install, adjust, and remove dies, synchronizing cams, forging hammers, and stop guides, using overhead cranes or other hoisting devices, and hand tools. Select, align, and bolt positioning fixtures, stops and specified dies to rams and anvils, forging rolls, or presses and hammers. Trim and compress finished forgings to specified tolerances.
51-4023| Rolling Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Adjust and correct machine set-ups to reduce thicknesses, reshape products, and eliminate product defects. Monitor machine cycles and mill operation to detect jamming and to ensure that products conform to specifications. Examine, inspect, and measure raw materials and finished products to verify conformance to specifications. Read rolling orders, blueprints, and mill schedules to determine setup specifications, work sequences, product dimensions, and installation procedures. Manipulate controls and observe dial indicators to monitor, adjust, and regulate speeds of machine mechanisms. Start operation of rolling and milling machines to flatten, temper, form, and reduce sheet metal sections and to produce steel strips. Set distance points between rolls, guides, meters, and stops, according to specifications. Thread or feed sheets or rods through rolling mechanisms, or start and control mechanisms that automatically feed steel into rollers. Position, align, and secure arbors, spindles, coils, mandrels, dies, and slitting knives. Direct and train other workers to change rolls, operate mill equipment, remove coils and cobbles, and band and load material. Fill oil cups, adjust valves, and observe gauges to control flow of metal coolants and lubricants onto workpieces. Record mill production on schedule sheets. Install equipment such as guides, guards, gears, cooling equipment, and rolls, using hand tools. Signal and assist other workers to remove and position equipment, fill hoppers, and feed materials into machines. Calculate draft space and roll speed for each mill stand to plan rolling sequences and specified dimensions and tempers. Select rolls, dies, roll stands, and chucks from data charts to form specified contours and to fabricate products. Activate shears and grinders to trim workpieces. Remove scratches and polish roll surfaces, using polishing stones and electric buffers. Disassemble sizing mills removed from rolling lines, and sort and store parts.
51-4031| Cutting, Punching, and Press Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Examine completed workpieces for defects, such as chipped edges or marred surfaces and sort defective pieces according to types of flaws. Measure completed workpieces to verify conformance to specifications, using micrometers, gauges, calipers, templates, or rulers. Set stops on machine beds, change dies, and adjust components, such as rams or power presses, when making multiple or successive passes. Start machines, monitor their operations, and record operational data. Set up, operate, or tend machines to saw, cut, shear, slit, punch, crimp, notch, bend, or straighten metal or plastic material. Test and adjust machine speeds or actions, according to product specifications, using gauges and hand tools. Install, align, and lock specified punches, dies, cutting blades, or other fixtures in rams or beds of machines, using gauges, templates, feelers, shims, and hand tools. Read work orders or production schedules to determine specifications, such as materials to be used, locations of cutting lines, or dimensions and tolerances. Position guides, stops, holding blocks, or other fixtures to secure and direct workpieces, using hand tools and measuring devices. Position, align, and secure workpieces against fixtures or stops on machine beds or on dies. Load workpieces, plastic material, or chemical solutions into machines. Adjust ram strokes of presses to specified lengths, using hand tools. Clean and lubricate machines. Mark identifying data on workpieces. Clean work area. Plan sequences of operations, applying knowledge of physical properties of workpiece materials. Operate forklifts to deliver materials. Lubricate workpieces with oil. Turn controls to set cutting speeds, feed rates, or table angles for specified operations. Scribe reference lines on workpieces as guides for cutting operations, according to blueprints, templates, sample parts, or specifications. Place workpieces on cutting tables, manually or using hoists, cranes, or sledges. Turn valves to start flow of coolant against cutting areas or to start airflow that blows cuttings away from kerfs. Thread ends of metal coils from reels through slitters and secure ends on recoilers. Grind out burrs or sharp edges, using portable grinders, speed lathes, or polishing jacks. Remove housings, feed tubes, tool holders, or other accessories to replace worn or broken parts, such as springs or bushings. Replace defective blades or wheels, using hand tools. Set blade tensions, heights, and angles to perform prescribed cuts, using wrenches. Select, clean, and install spacers, rubber sleeves, or cutters on arbors. Hand-form, cut, or finish workpieces, using tools such as table saws, hand sledges, or anvils. Preheat workpieces, using heating furnaces or hand torches. Sharpen dulled blades, using bench grinders, abrasive wheels, or lathes. Hone cutters with oilstones to remove nicks.
51-4032| Drilling and Boring Machine Tool Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plasti|Verify conformance of machined work to specifications, using measuring instruments, such as calipers, micrometers, or fixed or telescoping gauges. Study machining instructions, job orders, or blueprints to determine dimensional or finish specifications, sequences of operations, setups, or tooling requirements. Change worn cutting tools, using wrenches. Select and set cutting speeds, feed rates, depths of cuts, and cutting tools, according to machining instructions or knowledge of metal properties. Install tools in spindles. Move machine controls to lower tools to workpieces and to engage automatic feeds. Establish zero reference points on workpieces, such as at the intersections of two edges or over hole locations. Position and secure workpieces on tables, using bolts, jigs, clamps, shims, or other holding devices. Observe drilling or boring machine operations to detect any problems. Lift workpieces onto work tables either manually or with hoists or direct crane operators to lift and position workpieces. Verify that workpiece reference lines are parallel to the axis of table rotation, using dial indicators mounted in spindles. Lay out reference lines and machining locations on work, using layout tools, and applying knowledge of shop math and layout techniques. Turn valves and direct flow of coolants or cutting oil over cutting areas. Operate single- or multiple-spindle drill presses to bore holes so that machining operations can be performed on metal or plastic workpieces. Perform minor assembly, such as fastening parts with nuts, bolts, or screws, using power tools or hand tools. Sharpen cutting tools, using bench grinders. Operate tracing attachments to duplicate contours from templates or models.
51-4033| Grinding, Lapping, Polishing, and Buffing Machine Tool Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Inspect or measure finished workpieces to determine conformance to specifications, using measuring instruments such as gauges or micrometers. Lift and position workpieces, manually or with hoists, and secure them in hoppers or on machine tables, faceplates, or chucks, using clamps. Set up, operate, or tend grinding and related tools that remove excess material or burrs from surfaces, sharpen edges or corners, or buff, hone, or polish metal or plastic workpieces. Observe machine operations to detect any problems, making necessary adjustments to correct problems. Set and adjust machine controls according to product specifications, using knowledge of machine operation. Measure workpieces and lay out work, using precision measuring devices. Select machine tooling to be used, using knowledge of machine and production requirements. Study blueprints, work orders, or machining instructions to determine product specifications, tool requirements, and operational sequences. Mount and position tools in machine chucks, spindles, or other tool holding devices, using hand tools. Activate machine start-up switches to grind, lap, hone, debar, shear, or cut workpieces, according to specifications. Move machine controls to index workpieces, and to adjust machines for pre-selected operational settings. Brush or spray lubricating compounds on workpieces, or turn valve handles and direct flow of coolant against tools and workpieces. Compute machine indexings and settings for specified dimensions and base reference points. Slide spacers between buffs on spindles to set spacing. Thread and hand-feed materials through machine cutters or abraders. Adjust air cylinders and setting stops to set traverse lengths and feed arm strokes. Repair or replace machine parts, using hand tools, or notify engineering personnel when corrective action is required. Maintain stocks of machine parts and machining tools.
51-4034| Lathe and Turning Machine Tool Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Inspect sample workpieces to verify conformance with specifications, using instruments such as gauges, micrometers, and dial indicators. Study blueprints, layouts or charts, and job orders for information on specifications and tooling instructions, and to determine material requirements and operational sequences. Adjust machine controls and change tool settings to keep dimensions within specified tolerances. Move controls to set cutting speeds and depths and feed rates, and to position tools in relation to workpieces. Start lathe or turning machines and observe operations to ensure that specifications are met. Select cutting tools and tooling instructions, according to written specifications or knowledge of metal properties and shop mathematics. Crank machines through cycles, stopping to adjust tool positions and machine controls to ensure specified timing, clearances, and tolerances. Lift metal stock or workpieces manually or using hoists, and position and secure them in machines, using fasteners and hand tools. Replace worn tools, and sharpen dull cutting tools and dies using bench grinders or cutter-grinding machines. Position, secure, and align cutting tools in toolholders on machines, using hand tools, and verify their positions with measuring instruments. Compute unspecified dimensions and machine settings, using knowledge of metal properties and shop mathematics. Install holding fixtures, cams, gears, and stops to control stock and tool movement, using hand tools, power tools, and measuring instruments. Move toolholders manually or by turning handwheels, or engage automatic feeding mechanisms to feed tools to and along workpieces. Turn valve handles to direct the flow of coolant onto work areas or to coat disks with spinning compounds. Mount attachments, such as relieving or tracing attachments, to perform operations such as duplicating contours of templates or trimming workpieces.
51-4035| Milling and Planing Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Remove workpieces from machines, and check to ensure that they conform to specifications, using measuring instruments such as microscopes, gauges, calipers, and micrometers. Observe milling or planing machine operation and adjust controls to ensure conformance with specified tolerances. Position and secure workpieces on machines, using holding devices, measuring instruments, hand tools, and hoists. Study blueprints, layouts, sketches, or work orders to assess workpiece specifications and to determine tooling instructions, tools and materials needed, and sequences of operations. Move controls to set cutting specifications, to position cutting tools and workpieces in relation to each other, and to start machines. Compute dimensions, tolerances, and angles of workpieces or machines, according to specifications and knowledge of metal properties and shop mathematics. Verify alignment of workpieces on machines, using measuring instruments such as rules, gauges, or calipers. Select cutting speeds, feed rates, and depths of cuts, applying knowledge of metal properties and shop mathematics. Move cutters or material manually or by turning handwheels, or engage automatic feeding mechanisms to mill workpieces to specifications. Replace worn tools, using hand tools, and sharpen dull tools, using bench grinders. Select and install cutting tools and other accessories according to specifications, using hand tools or power tools. Record production output. Turn valves or pull levers to start and regulate the flow of coolant or lubricant to work areas. Make templates or cutting tools. Mount attachments and tools such as pantographs, engravers, or routers to perform other operations such as drilling or boring.
51-4041| Machinists|Calculate dimensions or tolerances, using instruments such as micrometers or vernier calipers. Machine parts to specifications, using machine tools, such as lathes, milling machines, shapers, or grinders. Set up, adjust, or operate basic or specialized machine tools used to perform precision machining operations. Align and secure holding fixtures, cutting tools, attachments, accessories, or materials onto machines. Measure, examine, or test completed units to check for defects and ensure conformance to specifications, using precision instruments, such as micrometers. Monitor the feed and speed of machines during the machining process. Maintain machine tools in proper operational condition. Study sample parts, blueprints, drawings, or engineering information to determine methods or sequences of operations needed to fabricate products. Operate equipment to verify operational efficiency. Check work pieces to ensure that they are properly lubricated or cooled. Program computers or electronic instruments, such as numerically controlled machine tools. Diagnose machine tool malfunctions to determine need for adjustments or repairs. Confer with engineering, supervisory, or manufacturing personnel to exchange technical information. Lay out, measure, and mark metal stock to display placement of cuts. Fit and assemble parts to make or repair machine tools. Set up or operate metalworking, brazing, heat-treating, welding, or cutting equipment. Dispose of scrap or waste material in accordance with company policies and environmental regulations. Separate scrap waste and related materials for reuse, recycling, or disposal. Evaluate machining procedures and recommend changes or modifications for improved efficiency or adaptability. Dismantle machines or equipment, using hand tools or power tools to examine parts for defects and replace defective parts where needed. Install repaired parts into equipment or install new equipment. Design fixtures, tooling, or experimental parts to meet special engineering needs. Confer with numerical control programmers to check and ensure that new programs or machinery will function properly and that output will meet specifications. Support metalworking projects from planning and fabrication through assembly, inspection, and testing, using knowledge of machine functions, metal properties and mathematics. Establish work procedures for fabricating new structural products, using a variety of metalworking machines. Prepare working sketches for the illustration of product appearance. Advise clients about the materials being used for finished products. Test experimental models under simulated operating conditions for purposes such as development, standardization, or feasibility of design. Install experimental parts or assemblies, such as hydraulic systems, electrical wiring, lubricants, or batteries into machines or mechanisms.
51-4051| Metal-Refining Furnace Operators and Tenders|Draw smelted metal samples from furnaces or kettles for analysis, and calculate types and amounts of materials needed to ensure that materials meet specifications. Drain, transfer, or remove molten metal from furnaces, and place it into molds, using hoists, pumps, or ladles. Record production data, and maintain production logs. Operate controls to move or discharge metal workpieces from furnaces. Weigh materials to be charged into furnaces, using scales. Regulate supplies of fuel and air, or control flow of electric current and water coolant to heat furnaces and adjust temperatures. Inspect furnaces and equipment to locate defects and wear. Observe air and temperature gauges or metal color and fluidity, and turn fuel valves or adjust controls to maintain required temperatures. Observe operations inside furnaces, using television screens, to ensure that problems do not occur. Remove impurities from the surface of molten metal, using strainers. Kindle fires, and shovel fuel and other materials into furnaces or onto conveyors by hand, with hoists, or by directing crane operators. Sprinkle chemicals over molten metal to bring impurities to the surface. Direct work crews in the cleaning and repair of furnace walls and flooring. Prepare material to load into furnaces, including cleaning, crushing, or applying chemicals, by using crushing machines, shovels, rakes, or sprayers. Scrape accumulations of metal oxides from floors, molds, and crucibles, and sift and store them for reclamation.
51-4052| Pourers and Casters, Metal|Collect samples, or signal workers to sample metal for analysis. Pour and regulate the flow of molten metal into molds and forms to produce ingots or other castings, using ladles or hand-controlled mechanisms. Read temperature gauges and observe color changes, adjusting furnace flames, torches, or electrical heating units as necessary to melt metal to specifications. Examine molds to ensure they are clean, smooth, and properly coated. Position equipment such as ladles, grinding wheels, pouring nozzles, or crucibles, or signal other workers to position equipment. Skim slag or remove excess metal from ingots or equipment, using hand tools, strainers, rakes, or burners, collecting scrap for recycling. Turn valves to circulate water through cores, or spray water on filled molds to cool and solidify metal. Add metal to molds to compensate for shrinkage. Pull levers to lift ladle stoppers and to allow molten steel to flow into ingot molds to specified heights. Load specified amounts of metal and flux into furnaces or clay crucibles. Remove solidified steel or slag from pouring nozzles, using long bars or oxygen burners. Assemble and embed cores in casting frames, using hand tools and equipment. Remove metal ingots or cores from molds, using hand tools, cranes, and chain hoists. Transport metal ingots to storage areas, using forklifts. Stencil identifying information on ingots and pigs, using special hand tools. Repair and maintain metal forms and equipment, using hand tools, sledges, and bars.
51-4061| Model Makers, Metal and Plastic|Study blueprints, drawings, and sketches to determine material dimensions, required equipment, and operations sequences. Set up and operate machines such as lathes, drill presses, punch presses, or bandsaws to fabricate prototypes or models. Inspect and test products to verify conformance to specifications, using precision measuring instruments or circuit testers. Cut, shape, and form metal parts, using lathes, power saws, snips, power brakes and shears, files, and mallets. Lay out and mark reference points and dimensions on materials, using measuring instruments and drawing or scribing tools. Drill, countersink, and ream holes in parts and assemblies for bolts, screws, and other fasteners, using power tools. Grind, file, and sand parts to finished dimensions. Record specifications, production operations, and final dimensions of models for use in establishing operating standards and procedures. Rework or alter component model or parts as required to ensure that products meet standards. Align, fit, and join parts, using bolts and screws or by welding or gluing. Consult and confer with engineering personnel to discuss developmental problems and to recommend product modifications. Assemble mechanical, electrical, and electronic components into models or prototypes, using hand tools, power tools, and fabricating machines. Devise and construct tools, dies, molds, jigs, and fixtures, or modify existing tools and equipment.
51-4062| Patternmakers, Metal and Plastic|Set up and operate machine tools, such as milling machines, lathes, drill presses, and grinders, to machine castings or patterns. Read and interpret blueprints or drawings of parts to be cast or patterns to be made, compute dimensions, and plan operational sequences. Verify conformance of patterns or template dimensions to specifications, using measuring instruments such as calipers, scales, and micrometers. Program computerized numerical control machine tools. Design and create templates, patterns, or coreboxes according to work orders, sample parts, or mockups. Assemble pattern sections, using hand tools, bolts, screws, rivets, glue, or welding equipment. Repair and rework templates and patterns. Lay out and draw or scribe patterns onto material, using compasses, protractors, rulers, scribes, or other instruments. Clean and finish patterns or templates, using emery cloths, files, scrapers, and power grinders. Construct platforms, fixtures, and jigs for holding and placing patterns. Mark identification numbers or symbols onto patterns or templates. Select pattern materials such as wood, resin, and fiberglass. Apply plastic-impregnated fabrics or coats of sealing wax or lacquer to patterns used to produce plastic.
51-4071| Foundry Mold and Coremakers|Clean and smooth molds, cores, and core boxes, and repair surface imperfections. Move and position workpieces such as mold sections, patterns, and bottom boards, using cranes, or signal others to move workpieces. Sprinkle or spray parting agents onto patterns and mold sections to facilitate removal of patterns from molds. Position patterns inside mold sections and clamp sections together. Position cores into lower sections of molds, and reassemble molds for pouring. Sift and pack sand into mold sections, core boxes, and pattern contours, using hand or pneumatic ramming tools. Tend machines that bond cope and drag together to form completed shell molds. Cut spouts, runner holes, and sprue holes into molds. Lift upper mold sections from lower sections and remove molded patterns. Form and assemble slab cores around patterns and position wire in mold sections to reinforce molds, using hand tools and glue. Pour molten metal into molds, manually or using crane ladles. Rotate sweep boards around spindles to make symmetrical molds for convex impressions. Operate ovens or furnaces to bake cores or to melt, skim, and flux metal.
51-4072| Molding, Coremaking, and Casting Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Observe continuous operation of automatic machines to ensure that products meet specifications and to detect jams or malfunctions, making adjustments as necessary. Measure and visually inspect products for surface and dimension defects to ensure conformance to specifications, using precision measuring instruments. Set up, operate, or tend metal or plastic molding, casting, or coremaking machines to mold or cast metal or thermoplastic parts or products. Position and secure workpieces on machines, and start feeding mechanisms. Turn valves and dials of machines to regulate pressure, temperature, and speed and feed rates, and to set cycle times. Remove finished or cured products from dies or molds, using hand tools, air hoses, and other equipment, stamping identifying information on products when necessary. Skim or pour dross, slag, or impurities from molten metal, using ladles, rakes, hoes, spatulas, or spoons. Trim excess material from parts, using knives, and grind scrap plastic into powder for reuse. Cool products after processing to prevent distortion. Install dies onto machines or presses and coat dies with parting agents, according to work order specifications. Mix and measure compounds, or weigh premixed compounds, and dump them into machine tubs, cavities, or molds. Observe meters and gauges to verify and record temperatures, pressures, and press-cycle times. Spray, smoke, or coat molds with compounds to lubricate or insulate molds, using acetylene torches or sprayers. Read specifications, blueprints, and work orders to determine setups, temperatures, and time settings required to mold, form, or cast plastic materials, as well as to plan production sequences. Adjust equipment and workpiece holding fixtures, such as mold frames, tubs, and cutting tables, to ensure proper functioning. Remove parts such as dies from machines after production runs are finished. Inventory and record quantities of materials and finished products, requisitioning additional supplies as necessary. Pour or load metal or sand into melting pots, furnaces, molds, or hoppers, using shovels, ladles, or machines. Unload finished products from conveyor belts, pack them in containers, and place containers in warehouses. Connect water hoses to cooling systems of dies, using hand tools. Preheat tools, dies, plastic materials, or patterns, using blowtorches or other equipment. Operate hoists to position dies or patterns on foundry floors. Smooth and clean inner surfaces of molds, using brushes, scrapers, air hoses, or grinding wheels, and fill imperfections with refractory material. Obtain and move specified patterns to work stations, manually or using hoists, and secure patterns to machines, using wrenches. Perform maintenance work such as cleaning and oiling machines. Repair or replace damaged molds, pipes, belts, chains, or other equipment, using hand tools, hand-powered presses, or jib cranes. Maintain inventories of materials. Select coolants and lubricants, and start their flow. Assemble shell halves, patterns, and foundry flasks, and reinforce core boxes, using glue, clamps, wire, bolts, rams, or machines. Pull level and toggle latches to fill molds, to regulate tension on sheeting, and to release mold covers. Select and install blades, tools, or other attachments for each operation.
51-4081| Multiple Machine Tool Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Observe machine operation to detect workpiece defects or machine malfunctions, adjusting machines as necessary. Set up and operate machines, such as lathes, cutters, shears, borers, millers, grinders, presses, drills, and auxiliary machines, to make metallic and plastic workpieces. Inspect workpieces for defects, and measure workpieces to determine accuracy of machine operation, using rules, templates, or other measuring instruments. Read blueprints or job orders to determine product specifications and tooling instructions and to plan operational sequences. Start machines and turn handwheels or valves to engage feeding, cooling, and lubricating mechanisms. Select, install, and adjust alignment of drills, cutters, dies, guides, and holding devices, using templates, measuring instruments, and hand tools. Move controls or mount gears, cams, or templates in machines to set feed rates and cutting speeds, depths, and angles. Position, adjust, and secure stock material or workpieces against stops, on arbors, or in chucks, fixtures, or automatic feeding mechanisms, manually or using hoists. Set machine stops or guides to specified lengths as indicated by scales, rules, or templates. Perform minor machine maintenance, such as oiling or cleaning machines, dies, or workpieces, or adding coolant to machine reservoirs. Measure and mark reference points and cutting lines on workpieces, using traced templates, compasses, and rules. Compute data such as gear dimensions and machine settings, applying knowledge of shop mathematics. Instruct other workers in machine set-up and operation. Change worn machine accessories, such as cutting tools and brushes, using hand tools. Make minor electrical and mechanical repairs and adjustments to machines and notify supervisors when major service is required. Extract or lift jammed pieces from machines, using fingers, wire hooks, or lift bars. Record operational data such as pressure readings, lengths of strokes, feed rates, and speeds. Remove burrs, sharp edges, rust, or scale from workpieces, using files, hand grinders, wire brushes, or power tools. Select the proper coolants and lubricants and start their flow. Align layout marks with dies or blades.
51-4111| Tool and Die Makers|Verify dimensions, alignments, and clearances of finished parts for conformance to specifications, using measuring instruments such as calipers, gauge blocks, micrometers, and dial indicators. Study blueprints, sketches, models, or specifications to plan sequences of operations for fabricating tools, dies, or assemblies. Set up and operate conventional or computer numerically controlled machine tools such as lathes, milling machines, and grinders to cut, bore, grind, or otherwise shape parts to prescribed dimensions and finishes. Visualize and compute dimensions, sizes, shapes, and tolerances of assemblies, based on specifications. Inspect finished dies for smoothness, contour conformity, and defects. Fit and assemble parts to make, repair, or modify dies, jigs, gauges, and tools, using machine tools and hand tools. Conduct test runs with completed tools or dies to ensure that parts meet specifications, making adjustments as necessary. Select metals to be used from a range of metals and alloys, based on properties such as hardness and heat tolerance. File, grind, shim, and adjust different parts to properly fit them together. Lift, position, and secure machined parts on surface plates or worktables, using hoists, vises, v-blocks, or angle plates. Smooth and polish flat and contoured surfaces of parts or tools, using scrapers, abrasive stones, files, emery cloths, or power grinders. Design jigs, fixtures, and templates for use as work aids in the fabrication of parts or products. Measure, mark, and scribe metal or plastic stock to lay out machining, using instruments such as protractors, micrometers, scribes, and rulers. Set up and operate drill presses to drill and tap holes in parts for assembly. Set pyrometer controls of heat-treating furnaces and feed or place parts, tools, or assemblies into furnaces to harden. Cut, shape, and trim blanks or blocks to specified lengths or shapes, using power saws, power shears, rules, and hand tools. Develop and design new tools and dies, using computer-aided design software.
51-4121| Welders, Cutters, Solderers, and Brazers|Weld components in flat, vertical, or overhead positions. Operate safety equipment and use safe work habits. Lay out, position, align, and secure parts and assemblies prior to assembly, using straightedges, combination squares, calipers, and rulers. Examine workpieces for defects and measure workpieces with straightedges or templates to ensure conformance with specifications. Recognize, set up, and operate hand and power tools common to the welding trade, such as shielded metal arc and gas metal arc welding equipment. Weld separately or in combination, using aluminum, stainless steel, cast iron, and other alloys. Clamp, hold, tack-weld, heat-bend, grind or bolt component parts to obtain required configurations and positions for welding. Select and install torches, torch tips, filler rods, and flux, according to welding chart specifications or types and thicknesses of metals. Ignite torches or start power supplies and strike arcs by touching electrodes to metals being welded, completing electrical circuits. Connect and turn regulator valves to activate and adjust gas flow and pressure so that desired flames are obtained. Determine required equipment and welding methods, applying knowledge of metallurgy, geometry, and welding techniques. Monitor the fitting, burning, and welding processes to avoid overheating of parts or warping, shrinking, distortion, or expansion of material. Operate manual or semi-automatic welding equipment to fuse metal segments, using processes such as gas tungsten arc, gas metal arc, flux-cored arc, plasma arc, shielded metal arc, resistance welding, and submerged arc welding. Analyze engineering drawings, blueprints, specifications, sketches, work orders, and material safety data sheets to plan layout, assembly, and welding operations. Mark or tag material with proper job number, piece marks, and other identifying marks as required. Chip or grind off excess weld, slag, or spatter, using hand scrapers or power chippers, portable grinders, or arc-cutting equipment. Remove rough spots from workpieces, using portable grinders, hand files, or scrapers. Prepare all material surfaces to be welded, ensuring that there is no loose or thick scale, slag, rust, moisture, grease, or other foreign matter. Preheat workpieces prior to welding or bending, using torches or heating furnaces. Develop templates and models for welding projects, using mathematical calculations based on blueprint information. Position and secure workpieces, using hoists, cranes, wire, and banding machines or hand tools. Guide and direct flames or electrodes on or across workpieces to straighten, bend, melt, or build up metal. Detect faulty operation of equipment or defective materials and notify supervisors. Clean or degrease parts, using wire brushes, portable grinders, or chemical baths. Cut, contour, and bevel metal plates and structural shapes to dimensions as specified by blueprints, layouts, work orders, and templates, using powered saws, hand shears, or chipping knives. Repair products by dismantling, straightening, reshaping, and reassembling parts, using cutting torches, straightening presses, and hand tools. Fill holes, and increase the size of metal parts. Check grooves, angles, or gap allowances, using micrometers, calipers, and precision measuring instruments. Operate metal shaping, straightening, and bending machines, such as brakes and shears. Set up and use ladders and scaffolding as necessary to complete work. Hammer out bulges or bends in metal workpieces. Dismantle metal assemblies or cut scrap metal, using thermal-cutting equipment such as flame-cutting torches or plasma-arc equipment. Signal crane operators to move large workpieces. Use fire suppression methods in industrial emergencies. Estimate materials needed for production and manufacturing and maintain required stocks of materials. Join parts such as beams and steel reinforcing rods in buildings, bridges, and highways, bolting and riveting as necessary. Gouge metals, using the air-arc gouging process. Mix and apply protective coatings to products. Operate brazing and soldering equipment.Examine seams for defects and rework defective joints or broken parts. Align and clamp workpieces together, using rules, squares, or hand tools, or position items in fixtures, jigs, or vises. Melt and apply solder along adjoining edges of workpieces to solder joints, using soldering irons, gas torches, or electric-ultrasonic equipment. Clean workpieces to remove dirt or excess acid, using chemical solutions, files, wire brushes, or grinders. Grind, cut, buff, or bend edges of workpieces to be joined to ensure snug fit, using power grinders and hand tools. Clean joints of workpieces with wire brushes or by dipping them into cleaning solutions. Guide torches and rods along joints of workpieces to heat them to brazing temperature, melt braze alloys, and bond workpieces together. Adjust electric current and timing cycles of resistance welding machines to heat metals to bonding temperature. Turn valves to start flow of gases and light flames and adjust valves to obtain desired colors and sizes of flames. Melt and apply solder to fill holes, indentations, or seams of fabricated metal products, using soldering equipment. Heat soldering irons or workpieces to specified temperatures for soldering, using gas flames or electric current. Brush flux onto joints of workpieces or dip braze rods into flux to prevent oxidation of metal. Smooth soldered areas with alternate strokes of paddles and torches, leaving soldered sections slightly higher than surrounding areas for later filing. Melt and separate brazed or soldered joints to remove and straighten damaged or misaligned components, using hand torches, irons, or furnaces. Remove workpieces from fixtures, using tongs, and cool workpieces, using air or water. Connect hoses from torches to regulator valves and cylinders of oxygen and specified gas fuels. Sweat together workpieces coated with solder. Dip workpieces into molten solder or place solder strips between seams and heat seams with irons to bond items together. Place solder bars into containers and turn knobs to specified positions to melt solder and regulate its temperature. Turn dials to set intensity and duration of ultrasonic impulses, according to work order specifications. Select torch tips, flux, and brazing alloys from data charts or work orders. Clean equipment parts, such as tips of soldering irons, using chemical solutions or cleaning compounds. Remove workpieces from molten solder and hold parts together until color indicates that solder has set.
51-4122| Welding, Soldering, and Brazing Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Inspect, measure, or test completed metal workpieces to ensure conformance to specifications, using measuring and testing devices. Read blueprints, work orders, or production schedules to determine product or job instructions or specifications. Assemble, align, and clamp workpieces into holding fixtures to bond, heat-treat, or solder fabricated metal components. Set up, operate, or tend welding machines that join or bond components to fabricate metal products or assemblies. Lay out, fit, or connect parts to be bonded, calculating production measurements as necessary. Correct problems by adjusting controls or by stopping machines and opening holding devices. Give directions to other workers regarding machine set-up and use. Select, position, align, and bolt jigs, holding fixtures, guides, or stops onto machines, using measuring instruments and hand tools. Mark weld points and positions of components on workpieces, using rules, squares, templates, or scribes. Transfer components, metal products, or assemblies, using moving equipment. Clean, lubricate, maintain, and adjust equipment to maintain efficient operation, using air hoses, cleaning fluids, and hand tools. Prepare metal surfaces or workpieces, using hand-operated equipment, such as grinders, cutters, or drills. Conduct trial runs before welding, soldering, or brazing and make necessary adjustments to equipment. Remove completed workpieces or parts from machinery, using hand tools. Tend auxiliary equipment used in welding processes. Load or feed workpieces into welding machines to join or bond components. Observe meters, gauges, or machine operations to ensure that soldering or brazing processes meet specifications. Turn and press knobs and buttons or enter operating instructions into computers to adjust and start welding machines. Compute and record settings for new work, applying knowledge of metal properties, principles of welding, and shop mathematics. Set dials and timing controls to regulate electrical current, gas flow pressure, heating or cooling cycles, or shut-off. Record operational information on specified production reports. Select torch tips, alloys, flux, coil, tubing, or wire, according to metal types or thicknesses, data charts, or records. Fill hoppers and position spouts to direct flow of flux or manually brush flux onto seams of workpieces. Start, monitor, and adjust robotic welding production lines. Devise or build fixtures or jigs used to hold parts in place during welding, brazing, or soldering. Add chemicals or materials to workpieces or machines to facilitate bonding or to cool workpieces. Immerse completed workpieces into water or acid baths to cool and clean components. Dress electrodes, using tip dressers, files, emery cloths, or dressing wheels. Anneal finished workpieces to relieve internal stress.
51-4191| Heat Treating Equipment Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Read production schedules and work orders to determine processing sequences, furnace temperatures, and heat cycle requirements for objects to be heat-treated. Record times that parts are removed from furnaces to document that objects have attained specified temperatures for specified times. Set up and operate or tend machines, such as furnaces, baths, flame-hardening machines, and electronic induction machines, that harden, anneal, and heat-treat metal. Determine types and temperatures of baths and quenching media needed to attain specified part hardness, toughness, and ductility, using heat-treating charts and knowledge of methods, equipment, and metals. Remove parts from furnaces after specified times, and air dry or cool parts in water, oil brine, or other baths. Position stock in furnaces, using tongs, chain hoists, or pry bars. Instruct new workers in machine operation. Adjust controls to maintain temperatures and heating times, using thermal instruments and charts, dials and gauges of furnaces, and color of stock in furnaces to make setting determinations. Determine flame temperatures, current frequencies, heating cycles, and induction heating coils needed, based on degree of hardness required and properties of stock to be treated. Load parts into containers and place containers on conveyors to be inserted into furnaces, or insert parts into furnaces. Mount workpieces in fixtures, on arbors, or between centers of machines. Set up and operate die-quenching machines to prevent parts from warping. Move controls to light gas burners and to adjust gas and water flow and flame temperature. Reduce heat when processing is complete to allow parts to cool in furnaces or machinery. Signal forklift operators to deposit or extract containers of parts into and from furnaces and quenching rinse tanks. Test parts for hardness, using hardness testing equipment, or by examining and feeling samples. Examine parts to ensure metal shades and colors conform to specifications, using knowledge of metal heat-treating. Repair, replace, and maintain furnace equipment as needed, using hand tools. Start conveyors and open furnace doors to load stock, or signal crane operators to uncover soaking pits and lower ingots into them. Heat billets, bars, plates, rods, and other stock to specified temperatures preparatory to forging, rolling, or processing, using oil, gas, or electrical furnaces. Clean oxides and scales from parts or fittings, using steam sprays or chemical and water baths. Place completed workpieces on conveyors, using cold rods, tongs, or chain hoists, or signal crane operators to transport them to subsequent stations. Stamp heat-treatment identification marks on parts, using hammers and punches. Set and adjust speeds of reels and conveyors for prescribed time cycles to pass parts through continuous furnaces. Mount fixtures and industrial coils on machines, using hand tools. Attach wire or metal to winding mechanisms that will pull parts through furnaces.
51-4192| Layout Workers, Metal and Plastic|Fit and align fabricated parts to be welded or assembled. Plan and develop layouts from blueprints and templates, applying knowledge of trigonometry, design, effects of heat, and properties of metals. Lay out and fabricate metal structural parts such as plates, bulkheads, and frames. Mark curves, lines, holes, dimensions, and welding symbols onto workpieces, using scribes, soapstones, punches, and hand drills. Compute layout dimensions, and determine and mark reference points on metal stock or workpieces for further processing, such as welding and assembly. Locate center lines and verify template positions, using measuring instruments such as gauge blocks, height gauges, and dial indicators. Lift and position workpieces in relation to surface plates, manually or with hoists, and using parallel blocks and angle plates. Plan locations and sequences of cutting, drilling, bending, rolling, punching, and welding operations, using compasses, protractors, dividers, and rules. Inspect machined parts to verify conformance to specifications. Design and prepare templates of wood, paper, or metal. Brace parts in position within hulls or ships for riveting or welding. Add dimensional details to blueprints or drawings made by other workers. Install doors, hatches, brackets, and clips. Apply pigment to layout surfaces, using paint brushes.
51-4193| Plating and Coating Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Metal and Plastic|Inspect coated or plated areas for defects such as air bubbles or uneven coverage. Immerse objects to be coated or plated into cleaning solutions, or spray objects with conductive solutions to prepare them for plating. Immerse workpieces in coating solutions or liquid metal or plastic for specified times. Set up, operate, or tend plating or coating machines to coat metal or plastic products with chromium, zinc, copper, cadmium, nickel, or other metal to protect or decorate surfaces. Position and feed materials into processing machines, by hand or by using automated equipment. Test machinery to ensure that it is operating properly. Operate hoists to place workpieces onto machine feed carriages or spindles. Maintain production records. Adjust controls to set temperatures of coating substances and speeds of machines and equipment. Remove objects from solutions at periodic intervals and observe objects to verify conformance to specifications. Observe gauges to ensure that machines are operating properly, making adjustments or stopping machines when problems occur. Position containers to receive parts, and load or unload materials in containers, using dollies or handtrucks. Perform equipment maintenance such as cleaning tanks and lubricating moving parts of conveyors. Clean and maintain equipment, using water hoses and scrapers. Determine sizes and compositions of objects to be plated, and amounts of electrical current and time required. Suspend sticks or pieces of plating metal from anodes, or positive terminals, and immerse metal in plating solutions. Monitor and measure thicknesses of electroplating on component parts to verify conformance to specifications, using micrometers. Adjust dials to regulate flow of current and voltage supplied to terminals to control plating processes. Rinse coated objects in cleansing liquids and dry them with cloths, centrifugal driers, or by tumbling in sawdust-filled barrels. Examine completed objects to determine thicknesses of metal deposits, or measure thicknesses by using instruments such as micrometers. Measure or weigh materials, using rulers, calculators, and scales. Suspend objects such as parts or molds from cathode rods, or negative terminals, and immerse objects in plating solutions. Measure, mark, and mask areas to be excluded from plating. Mix and test solutions, and turn valves to fill tanks with solutions. Place plated or coated materials on racks and transfer them to ovens to dry for specified periods of time. Plate small objects such as nuts or bolts, using motor-driven barrels. Read production schedules to determine setups of equipment and machines. Spray coating in specified patterns according to instructions. Position objects to be plated in frames, or suspend them from positive or negative terminals of power supplies. Measure and set stops, rolls, brushes, and guides on automatic feeders and conveying equipment or coating machines, using micrometers, rules, and hand tools. Preheat workpieces in ovens. Replace worn parts and adjust equipment components, using hand tools. Attach nozzles, position guns, connect hoses, and thread wire to set up metal-spraying machines. Remove excess materials or impurities from objects, using air hoses or grinding machines. Clean workpieces, using wire brushes. Install gears and holding devices on conveyor equipment. Operate sandblasting equipment to roughen and clean surfaces of workpieces.
51-4194| Tool Grinders, Filers, and Sharpeners|Dress grinding wheels, according to specifications. Monitor machine operations to determine whether adjustments are necessary, stopping machines when problems occur. Inspect, feel, and measure workpieces to ensure that surfaces and dimensions meet specifications. Set up and operate grinding or polishing machines to grind metal workpieces such as dies, parts, and tools. Remove finished workpieces from machines and place them in boxes or on racks, setting aside pieces that are defective. File or finish surfaces of workpieces, using prescribed hand tools. Select and mount grinding wheels on machines, according to specifications, using hand tools and applying knowledge of abrasives and grinding procedures. Perform basic maintenance, such as cleaning and lubricating machine parts. Remove and replace worn or broken machine parts, using hand tools. Compute numbers, widths, and angles of cutting tools, micrometers, scales, and gauges, and adjust tools to produce specified cuts. Study blueprints or layouts of metal workpieces to determine grinding procedures, and to plan machine setups and operational sequences. Turn valves to direct flow of coolant against cutting wheels and workpieces during grinding. Fit parts together in preassembly to ensure that dimensions are accurate. Inspect dies to detect defects, assess wear, and verify specifications, using micrometers, steel gauge pins, and loupes. Duplicate workpiece contours, using tracer attachments. Straighten workpieces and remove dents, using straightening presses and hammers. Attach workpieces to grinding machines and form specified sections and repair cracks, using welding or brazing equipment. Place workpieces in electroplating solutions or apply pigments to surfaces of workpieces to highlight ridges and grooves.
51-5111| Prepress Technician and Workers|Enter, store, and retrieve information on computer-aided equipment. Enter, position, and alter text size, using computers, to make up and arrange pages so that printed materials can be produced. Maintain, adjust, and clean equipment, and perform minor repairs. Operate and maintain laser plate-making equipment that converts electronic data to plates without the use of film. Examine photographic images for obvious imperfections prior to plate making. Operate presses to print proofs of plates, monitoring printing quality to ensure that it is adequate. Monitor contact between cover glass and masks inside vacuum frames to prevent flaws resulting from overexposure or light reflection. Transfer images from master plates to unexposed plates, and immerse plates in developing solutions to develop images. Examine unexposed photographic plates to detect flaws or foreign particles prior to printing. Lower vacuum frames onto plate-film assemblies, activate vacuums to establish contact between film and plates, and set timers to activate ultraviolet lights that expose plates. Examine finished plates to detect flaws, verify conformity with master plates, and measure dot sizes and centers, using light boxes and microscopes. Perform close alignment or registration of double and single flats to sensitized plates prior to exposure to produce composite images. Remove plate-film assemblies from vacuum frames and place exposed plates in automatic processors to develop images and dry plates. Position and angle screens for proper exposure. Inspect developed film for specified results and quality, using magnifying glasses and scopes, forwarding acceptable negatives or positives to other workers or to customers. Punch holes in light-sensitive plates and insert pins in holes to prepare plates for contact with positive or negative film. Unload exposed film from scanners, and place film in automatic processors to develop images. Place masking paper on areas of plates not covered by positives or negatives to prevent exposure. Mount negatives and plates in cameras, set exposure controls, and expose plates to light through negatives to transfer images onto plates. Operate and maintain a variety of cameras and equipment, such as process, line, halftone, and color separation cameras, enlargers, electronic scanners, and contact equipment. Perform tests to determine lengths of exposures, by exposing plates, scanning line copy, and comparing exposures to tone range scales. Mix solutions such as developing solutions and colored coating solutions. Activate scanners to produce positive or negative films for the black-and-white, cyan, yellow, and magenta separations from each original copy. Select proper types of plates according to press run lengths. Reposition lamps and adjust aperture controls to provide high quality images. Analyze originals to evaluate color density, gradation highlights, middle tones, and shadows, using densitometers and knowledge of light and color. Set scanners to specific color densities, sizes, screen rulings, and exposure adjustments, using scanner keyboards or computers. Perform minor deletions, additions, or corrections to completed plates, on or off printing presses, using tusche, printing ink, erasers, and needles. Correct minor film mask defects with litho tape or opaquing fluid. Position color transparencies, negatives, or reflection copies on scanning drums, and mount drums and heads on scanners. Arrange and mount typeset material and illustrations into paste-ups for printing reproduction, based on artists' or editors' layouts. Scale copy for reductions and enlargements, using proportion wheels.
51-5112| Printing Press Operators|Collect and inspect random samples during print runs to identify any necessary adjustments. Examine job orders to determine quantities to be printed, stock specifications, colors, or special printing instructions. Verify that paper and ink meet the specifications for a given job. Start presses and pull proofs to check for ink coverage and density, alignment, and registration. Change press plates, blankets, or cylinders, as required. Obtain or mix inks and fill ink fountains. Feed paper through press cylinders and adjust feed and tension controls. Load presses with paper and make necessary adjustments, according to paper size. Secure printing plates to printing units and adjust tolerances. Clean ink fountains, plates, or printing unit cylinders when press runs are completed. Monitor automated press operation systems and respond to fault, error, or alert messages. Clean or oil presses or make minor repairs, using hand tools. Adjust ink fountain flow rates. Maintain time or production records. Adjust digital files to alter print elements, such as fonts, graphics, or color separations. Input production job settings into workstation terminals that control automated printing systems. Download completed jobs to archive media so that questions can be answered or jobs replicated. Download or scan files to be printed, using printing production software. Direct or monitor work of press crews. Monitor environmental factors, such as humidity and temperature, that may impact equipment performance and make necessary adjustments. Monitor inventory levels on a regular basis, ordering or requesting additional supplies, as necessary. Set up or operate auxiliary equipment, such as cutting, folding, plate-making, drilling, or laminating machines.
51-5113| Print Binding and Finishing Workers|Examine stitched, collated, bound, or unbound product samples for defects, such as imperfect bindings, ink spots, torn pages, loose pages, or loose or uncut threads. Read work orders to determine instructions and specifications for machine set-up. Install or adjust bindery machine devices, such as knives, guides, rollers, rounding forms, creasing rams, or clamps, to accommodate sheets, signatures, or books of specified sizes. Trim edges of books to size, using cutting machines, book trimming machines, or hand cutters. Stitch or glue endpapers, bindings, backings, or signatures, using sewing machines, glue machines, or glue and brushes. Monitor machine operations to detect malfunctions or to determine whether adjustments are needed. Maintain records, such as daily production records, using specified forms. Lubricate, clean, or make minor repairs to machine parts to keep machines in working condition. Set up or operate bindery machines, such as coil binders, thermal or tape binders, plastic comb binders, or specialty binders. Set up or operate machines that perform binding operations, such as pressing, folding, or trimming. Prepare finished books for shipping by wrapping or packing books and stacking boxes on pallets. Set up or operate glue machines by filling glue reservoirs, turning switches to activate heating elements, or adjusting glue flow or conveyor speed. Train workers to set up, operate, and use automatic bindery machines. Insert book bodies in devices that form back edges of books into convex shapes and produce grooves that facilitate cover attachment. Cut cover material to specified dimensions, fitting and gluing material to binder boards by hand or machine. Cut binder boards to specified dimensions, using board shears, hand cutters, or cutting machines. Bind new books, using hand tools such as bone folders, knives, hammers, or brass binding tools. Perform highly skilled hand finishing binding operations, such as grooving or lettering. Imprint or emboss lettering, designs, or numbers on book covers, using gold, silver, or colored foil, and stamping machines. Compress sewed or glued signatures, using hand presses or smashing machines. Meet with clients, printers, or designers to discuss job requirements or binding plans. Form book bodies by folding and sewing printed sheets to form signatures and assembling signatures in numerical order. Design original or special bindings for limited editions or other custom binding projects. Punch holes in and fasten paper sheets, signatures, or other material, using hand or machine punches and staplers. Repair, restore, or rebind old, rare, or damaged books, using hand tools. Apply color to edges of signatures using brushes, pads, or atomizers.
51-6011| Laundry and Dry-Cleaning Workers|Load articles into washers or dry-cleaning machines, or direct other workers to perform loading. Start washers, dry cleaners, driers, or extractors, and turn valves or levers to regulate machine processes and the volume of soap, detergent, water, bleach, starch, and other additives. Operate extractors and driers, or direct their operation. Remove items from washers or dry-cleaning machines, or direct other workers to do so. Sort and count articles removed from dryers, and fold, wrap, or hang them. Clean machine filters, and lubricate equipment. Examine and sort into lots articles to be cleaned, according to color, fabric, dirt content, and cleaning technique required. Receive and mark articles for laundry or dry cleaning with identifying code numbers or names, using hand or machine markers. Apply bleaching powders to spots and spray them with steam to remove stains from fabrics that do not respond to other cleaning solvents. Determine spotting procedures and proper solvents, based on fabric and stain types. Spray steam, water, or air over spots to flush out chemicals, dry material, raise naps, or brighten colors. Pre-soak, sterilize, scrub, spot-clean, and dry contaminated or stained articles, using neutralizer solutions and portable machines. Mix bleaching agents with hot water in vats, and soak material until it is bleached. Apply chemicals to neutralize the effects of solvents. Mix and add detergents, dyes, bleaches, starches, and other solutions and chemicals to clean, color, dry, or stiffen articles. Sprinkle chemical solvents over stains, and pat areas with brushes or sponges to remove stains. Match sample colors, applying knowledge of bleaching agent and dye properties, and types, construction, conditions, and colors of articles. Inspect soiled articles to determine sources of stains, to locate color imperfections, and to identify items requiring special treatment. Operate dry-cleaning machines to clean soiled articles. Operate machines that comb, dry and polish furs, clean, sterilize and fluff feathers and blankets, or roll and package towels. Iron or press articles, fabrics, and furs, using hand irons or pressing machines. Hang curtains, drapes, blankets, pants, and other garments on stretch frames to dry. Clean fabrics, using vacuums or air hoses. Test fabrics in inconspicuous places to determine whether solvents will damage dyes or fabrics. Rinse articles in water and acetic acid solutions to remove excess dye and to fix colors. Identify articles' fabrics and original dyes by sight and touch, or by testing samples with fire or chemical reagents. Start pumps to operate distilling systems that drain and reclaim dry cleaning solvents. Immerse articles in bleaching baths to strip colors. Spread soiled articles on work tables, and position stained portions over vacuum heads or on marble slabs. Mend and sew articles, using hand stitching, adhesive patches, or sewing machines. Dye articles to change or restore their colors, using knowledge of textile compositions and the properties and effects of bleaches and dyes.
51-6021| Pressers, Textile, Garment, and Related Materials|Operate steam, hydraulic, or other pressing machines to remove wrinkles from garments and flatwork items, or to shape, form, or patch articles. Lower irons, rams, or pressing heads of machines into position over material to be pressed. Remove finished pieces from pressing machines and hang or stack them for cooling, or forward them for additional processing. Hang, fold, package, and tag finished articles for delivery to customers. Slide material back and forth over heated, metal, ball-shaped forms to smooth and press portions of garments that cannot be satisfactorily pressed with flat pressers or hand irons. Select appropriate pressing machines, based on garment properties such as heat tolerance. Push and pull irons over surfaces of articles to smooth or shape them. Finish pleated garments, determining sizes of pleats from evidence of old pleats or from work orders, using machine presses or hand irons. Straighten, smooth, or shape materials to prepare them for pressing. Finish pants, jackets, shirts, skirts and other dry-cleaned and laundered articles, using hand irons. Position materials such as cloth garments, felt, or straw on tables, dies, or feeding mechanisms of pressing machines, or on ironing boards or work tables. Spray water over fabric to soften fibers when not using steam irons. Moisten materials to soften and smooth them. Finish velvet garments by steaming them on bucks of hot-head presses or steam tables, and brushing pile (nap) with handbrushes. Finish fancy garments such as evening gowns and costumes, using hand irons to produce high quality finishes. Activate and adjust machine controls to regulate temperature and pressure of rollers, ironing shoes, or plates, according to specifications. Shrink, stretch, or block articles by hand to conform to original measurements, using forms, blocks, and steam. Clean and maintain pressing machines, using cleaning solutions and lubricants. Block or shape knitted garments after cleaning. Insert heated metal forms into ties and touch up rough places with hand irons. Brush materials made of suede, leather, or felt to remove spots or to raise and smooth naps. Use covering cloths to prevent equipment from damaging delicate fabrics. Press ties on small pressing machines. Select, install, and adjust machine components, including pressing forms, rollers, and guides, using hoists and hand tools. Examine and measure finished articles to verify conformance to standards, using measuring devices such as tape measures and micrometers. Sew ends of new material to leaders or to ends of material in pressing machines, using sewing machines. Measure fabric to specifications, cut uneven edges with shears, fold material, and press it with an iron to form a heading.
51-6031| Sewing Machine Operators|Monitor machine operation to detect problems such as defective stitching, breaks in thread, or machine malfunctions. Position items under needles, using marks on machines, clamps, templates, or cloth as guides. Place spools of thread, cord, or other materials on spindles, insert bobbins, and thread ends through machine guides and components. Match cloth pieces in correct sequences prior to sewing them, and verify that dye lots and patterns match. Guide garments or garment parts under machine needles and presser feet to sew parts together. Start and operate or tend machines, such as single or double needle serging and flat-bed felling machines, to automatically join, reinforce, or decorate material or articles. Record quantities of materials processed. Inspect garments, and examine repair tags and markings on garments to locate defects or damage, and mark errors as necessary. Select supplies such as fasteners and thread, according to job requirements. Mount attachments, such as needles, cutting blades, or pattern plates, and adjust machine guides according to specifications. Cut excess material or thread from finished products. Fold or stretch edges or lengths of items while sewing to facilitate forming specified sections. Perform equipment maintenance tasks such as replacing needles, sanding rough areas of needles, or cleaning and oiling sewing machines. Examine and measure finished articles to verify conformance to standards, using rulers. Turn knobs, screws, and dials to adjust settings of machines, according to garment styles and equipment performance. Repair or alter items by adding replacement parts or missing stitches. Cut materials according to specifications, using blades, scissors, or electric knives. Remove holding devices and finished items from machines. Position and mark patterns on materials to prepare for sewing. Position material or articles in clamps, templates, or hoop frames prior to automatic operation of machines. Attach tape, trim, appliques, or elastic to specified garments or garment parts, according to item specifications. Perform specialized or automatic sewing machine functions, such as buttonhole making or tacking. Attach buttons, hooks, zippers, fasteners, or other accessories to fabric, using feeding hoppers or clamp holders. Baste edges of material to align and temporarily secure parts for final assembly. Tape or twist together thread or cord to repair breaks. Draw markings or pin appliques on fabric to obtain variations in design.
51-6041| Shoe and Leather Workers and Repairers|Cut out parts, following patterns or outlines, using knives, shears, scissors, or machine presses. Construct, decorate, or repair leather products according to specifications, using sewing machines, needles and thread, leather lacing, glue, clamps, hand tools, or rivets. Align and stitch or glue materials such as fabric, fleece, leather, or wood, to join parts. Dye, soak, polish, paint, stamp, stitch, stain, buff, or engrave leather or other materials to obtain desired effects, decorations, or shapes. Select materials and patterns, and trace patterns onto materials to be cut out. Dress and otherwise finish boots or shoes, as by trimming the edges of new soles and heels to the shoe shape. Estimate the costs of requested products or services such as custom footwear or footwear repair, and receive payment from customers. Attach insoles to shoe lasts, affix shoe uppers, and apply heels and outsoles. Cement, nail, or sew soles and heels to shoes. Shape shoe heels with a knife, and sand them on a buffing wheel for smoothness. Repair or replace soles, heels, and other parts of footwear, using sewing, buffing and other shoe repair machines, materials, and equipment. Make, modify, and repair orthopedic or therapeutic footwear according to doctors' prescriptions, or modify existing footwear for people with foot problems and special needs. Repair and recondition leather products such as trunks, luggage, shoes, saddles, belts, purses, and baseball gloves. Place shoes on lasts to remove soles and heels, using knives or pliers. Clean and polish shoes. Check the texture, color, and strength of leather to ensure that it is adequate for a particular purpose. Read prescriptions or specifications, and take measurements to establish the type of product to be made, using calipers, tape measures, or rules. Inspect articles for defects, and remove damaged or worn parts, using hand tools. Drill or punch holes and insert or attach metal rings, handles, and fastening hardware, such as buckles. Attach accessories or ornamentation to decorate or protect products. Cut, insert, position, and secure paddings, cushioning, or linings, using stitches or glue. Draw patterns, using measurements, designs, plaster casts, or customer specifications, and position or outline patterns on work pieces. Measure customers for fit, and discuss with them the type of footwear to be made, recommending details such as leather quality. Stretch shoes, dampening parts and inserting and twisting parts, using an adjustable stretcher. Nail heel and toe cleats onto shoes. Prepare inserts, heel pads, and lifts from casts of customers' feet. Re-sew seams, and replace handles and linings of suitcases or handbags.
51-6042| Shoe Machine Operators and Tenders|Study work orders or shoe part tags to obtain information about workloads, specifications, and the types of materials to be used. Remove and examine shoes, shoe parts, and designs to verify conformance to specifications such as proper embedding of stitches in channels. Perform routine equipment maintenance such as cleaning and lubricating machines or replacing broken needles. Cut excess thread or material from shoe parts, using scissors or knives. Turn screws to regulate size of staples. Align parts to be stitched, following seams, edges, or markings, before positioning them under needles. Turn setscrews on needle bars, and position required numbers of needles in stitching machines. Switch on machines, lower pressure feet or rollers to secure parts, and start machine stitching, using hand, foot, or knee controls. Collect shoe parts from conveyer belts or racks and place them in machinery such as ovens or on molds for dressing, returning them to conveyers or racks to send them to the next work station. Position dies on material in a manner that will obtain the maximum number of parts from each portion of material. Test machinery to ensure proper functioning before beginning production. Operate or tend machines to join, decorate, reinforce, or finish shoes and shoe parts. Draw thread through machine guide slots, needles, and presser feet in preparation for stitching, or load rolls of wire through machine axles. Fill shuttle spools with thread from a machine's bobbin winder by pressing a foot treadle. Load hot-melt plastic rod glue through reactivator axles, using wrenches, and switch on reactivators, setting temperature and timers to heat glue to specifications. Staple sides of shoes, pressing a foot treadle to position and hold each shoe under the feeder of the machine. Select and place spools of thread or pre-wound bobbins into shuttles, or onto spindles or loupers of stitching machines. Hammer loose staples for proper attachment. Turn knobs to adjust stitch length and thread tension.
51-6051| Sewers, Hand|Sew, join, reinforce, or finish parts of articles, such as garments, books, mattresses, toys, and wigs, using needles and thread or other materials. Trim excess threads or edges of parts, using scissors or knives. Select thread, twine, cord, or yarn to be used, and thread needles. Draw and cut patterns according to specifications. Fold, twist, stretch, or drape material, and secure articles in preparation for sewing. Smooth seams with heated irons, flat bones, or rubbing sticks. Measure and align parts, fasteners, or trimmings, following seams, edges, or markings on parts. Use different sewing techniques such as felling, tacking, basting, embroidery, and fagoting. Sew buttonholes, or add lace or other trimming. Wax thread by drawing it through a ball of wax. Tie, knit, weave or knot ribbon, yarn, or decorative materials.
51-6052| Tailors, Dressmakers, and Custom Sewers|Fit and study garments on customers to determine required alterations. Sew garments, using needles and thread or sewing machines. Measure parts such as sleeves or pant legs, and mark or pin-fold alteration lines. Take up or let down hems to shorten or lengthen garment parts such as sleeves. Let out or take in seams in suits and other garments to improve fit. Assemble garment parts and join parts with basting stitches, using needles and thread or sewing machines. Remove stitches from garments to be altered, using rippers or razor blades. Record required alterations and instructions on tags, and attach them to garments. Examine tags on garments to determine alterations that are needed. Fit, alter, repair, and make made-to-measure clothing, according to customers' and clothing manufacturers' specifications and fit, and applying principles of garment design, construction, and styling. Maintain garment drape and proportions as alterations are performed. Press garments, using hand irons or pressing machines. Trim excess material, using scissors. Develop, copy, or adapt designs for garments, and design patterns to fit measurements, applying knowledge of garment design, construction, styling, and fabric. Make garment style changes, such as tapering pant legs, narrowing lapels, and adding or removing padding. Measure customers, using tape measures, and record measurements. Estimate how much a garment will cost to make, based on factors such as time and material requirements. Repair or replace defective garment parts such as pockets, zippers, snaps, buttons, and linings. Confer with customers to determine types of material and garment styles desired. Position patterns of garment parts on fabric, and cut fabric along outlines, using scissors. Sew buttonholes and attach buttons to finish garments. Put in padding and shaping materials.
51-6061| Textile Bleaching and Dyeing Machine Operators and Tenders|Add dyes, water, detergents, or chemicals to tanks to dilute or strengthen solutions, according to established formulas and solution test results. Notify supervisors or mechanics of equipment malfunctions. Adjust equipment controls to maintain specified heat, tension, and speed. Observe display screens, control panels, equipment, and cloth entering or exiting processes to determine if equipment is operating correctly. Prepare dyeing machines for production runs, and conduct test runs of machines to ensure their proper operation. Monitor factors such as temperatures and dye flow rates to ensure that they are within specified ranges. Start and control machines and equipment to wash, bleach, dye, or otherwise process and finish fabric, yarn, thread, or other textile goods. Examine and feel products to identify defects and variations from coloring and other processing standards. Record production information such as fabric yardage processed, temperature readings, fabric tensions, and machine speeds. Test solutions used to process textile goods to detect variations from standards. Remove dyed articles from tanks and machines for drying and further processing. Study guides, charts, and specification sheets, and confer with supervisors to determine machine setup requirements. Confer with coworkers to get information about order details, processing plans, or problems that occur. Inspect machinery to determine necessary adjustments and repairs. Weigh ingredients to be mixed together for use in textile processing. Sew ends of cloth together, by hand or using machines, to form endless lengths of cloth to facilitate processing. Key in processing instructions to program electronic equipment. Soak specified textile products for designated times. Thread ends of cloth or twine through specified sections of equipment prior to processing. Mount rolls of cloth on machines, using hoists, or place textile goods in machines or pieces of equipment. Perform machine maintenance, such as cleaning and oiling equipment, and repair or replace worn or defective parts. Ravel seams that connect cloth ends when processing is completed. Install, level, and align components such as gears, chains, dies, cutters, and needles. Creel machines with bobbins or twine.
51-6062| Textile Cutting Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Place patterns on top of layers of fabric and cut fabric following patterns, using electric or manual knives, cutters, or computer numerically controlled cutting devices. Notify supervisors of mechanical malfunctions. Repair or replace worn or defective parts or components, using hand tools. Adjust cutting techniques to types of fabrics and styles of garments. Inspect machinery to determine whether repairs are needed. Adjust machine controls, such as heating mechanisms, tensions, or speeds, to produce specified products. Inspect products to ensure that specifications are met and to determine whether machines require adjustment. Confer with coworkers to obtain information about orders, processes, or problems. Start machines, monitor operations, and make adjustments as needed. Clean, oil, and lubricate machines, using air hoses, cleaning solutions, rags, oilcans, and grease guns. Record information about work completed and machine settings. Operate machines to cut multiple layers of fabric into parts for articles such as canvas goods, house furnishings, garments, hats, or stuffed toys. Study guides, samples, charts, and specification sheets or confer with supervisors or engineering staff to determine set-up requirements. Operate machines for test runs to verify adjustments and to obtain product samples. Stop machines when specified amounts of product have been produced. Install, level, and align components, such as gears, chains, guides, dies, cutters, or needles, to set up machinery for operation. Program electronic equipment. Thread yarn, thread, or fabric through guides, needles, and rollers of machines.
51-6063| Textile Knitting and Weaving Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Remove defects in cloth by cutting and pulling out filling. Inspect products to ensure that specifications are met and to determine if machines need adjustment. Observe woven cloth to detect weaving defects. Thread yarn, thread, and fabric through guides, needles, and rollers of machines for weaving, knitting, or other processing. Examine looms to determine causes of loom stoppage, such as warp filling, harness breaks, or mechanical defects. Notify supervisors or repair staff of mechanical malfunctions. Set up, or set up and operate textile machines that perform textile processing and manufacturing operations such as winding, twisting, knitting, weaving, bonding, or stretching. Start machines, monitor operations, and make adjustments as needed. Inspect machinery to determine whether repairs are needed. Record information about work completed and machine settings. Confer with co-workers to obtain information about orders, processes, or problems. Stop machines when specified amounts of product have been produced. Clean, oil, and lubricate machines, using air hoses, cleaning solutions, rags, oil cans, or grease guns. Operate machines for test runs to verify adjustments and to obtain product samples. Wash and blend wool, yarn, or cloth. Program electronic equipment. Study guides, loom patterns, samples, charts, or specification sheets, or confer with supervisors or engineering staff to determine setup requirements. Repair or replace worn or defective needles and other components, using hand tools. Install, level, and align machine components such as gears, chains, guides, dies, cutters, or needles to set up machinery for operation. Adjust machine heating mechanisms, tensions, and speeds to produce specified products.
51-6064| Textile Winding, Twisting, and Drawing Out Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Notify supervisors or mechanics of equipment malfunctions. Start machines, monitor operation, and make adjustments as needed. Tend machines with multiple winding units that wind thread onto shuttle bobbins for use on sewing machines or other kinds of bobbins for sole-stitching, knitting, or weaving machinery. Inspect products to verify that they meet specifications and to determine whether machine adjustment is needed. Tend machines that twist together two or more strands of yarn or insert additional twists into single strands of yarn to increase strength, smoothness, or uniformity of yarn. Replace depleted supply packages with full packages. Observe operations to detect defects, malfunctions, or supply shortages. Thread yarn, thread, or fabric through guides, needles, and rollers of machines. Operate machines for test runs to verify adjustments and to obtain product samples. Inspect machinery to determine whether repairs are needed. Place bobbins on spindles and insert spindles into bobbin-winding machines. Tend machines that wind wire onto bobbins, preparatory to formation of wire netting used in reinforcing sheet glass. Record production data such as numbers and types of bobbins wound. Stop machines when specified amount of products has been produced. Study guides, samples, charts, and specification sheets, or confer with supervisors or engineering staff to determine setup requirements. Measure bobbins periodically, using gauges, and turn screws to adjust tension if bobbins are not of specified size. Install, level, and align machine components such as gears, chains, guides, dies, cutters, or needles to set up machinery for operation. Tend spinning frames that draw out and twist roving or sliver into yarn. Unwind lengths of yarn, thread, or twine from spools and wind onto bobbins. Observe bobbins as they are winding and cut threads to remove loaded bobbins, using knives. Adjust machine settings such as speed or tension to produce products that meet specifications. Clean, oil, and lubricate machines, using air hoses, cleaning solutions, rags, oilcans, and grease guns. Remove spindles from machines and bobbins from spindles. Repair or replace worn or defective parts or components, using hand tools.
51-6091| Extruding and Forming Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Synthetic and Glass Fibers|Remove excess, entangled, or completed filaments from machines, using hand tools. Set up, operate, or tend machines that extrude and form filaments from synthetic materials such as rayon, fiberglass, or liquid polymers. Load materials into extruding and forming machines, using hand tools, and adjust feed mechanisms to set feed rates. Start metering pumps and observe operation of machines and equipment to ensure continuous flow of filaments extruded through spinnerettes and to detect processing defects. Move controls to activate and adjust extruding and forming machines. Record details of machine malfunctions. Notify other workers of defects, and direct them to adjust extruding and forming machines. Press buttons to stop machines when processes are complete or when malfunctions are detected. Observe flow of finish across finish rollers, and turn valves to adjust flow to specifications. Observe machine operations, control boards, and gauges to detect malfunctions such as clogged bushings and defective binder applicators. Open cabinet doors to cut multifilament threadlines away from guides, using scissors. Press metering-pump buttons and turn valves to stop flow of polymers. Remove polymer deposits from spinnerettes and equipment, using silicone spray, brass chisels, and bronze-wool pads. Clean and maintain extruding and forming machines, using hand tools. Pass sliver strands through openings in floors to workers on floors below who wind slivers onto tubes. Turn petcocks to adjust the flow of binding fluid to sleeves. Turn rheostats to obtain specified temperatures in electric furnaces where glass is melted. Record operational data on tags, and attach tags to machines. Lower pans inside cabinets to catch molten filaments until flow of polymer through packs has stopped. Pull extruded fiberglass filaments over sleeves where binding solution is applied, and into grooves of graphite shoes that bind filaments into single strands of sliver. Wipe finish rollers with cloths and wash finish trays with water when necessary.
51-6092| Fabric and Apparel Patternmakers|Test patterns by making and fitting sample garments. Draw details on outlined parts to indicate where parts are to be joined, as well as the positions of pleats, pockets, buttonholes, and other features, using computers or drafting instruments. Determine the best layout of pattern pieces to minimize waste of material, and mark fabric accordingly. Create a master pattern for each size within a range of garment sizes, using charts, drafting instruments, computers, or grading devices. Draw outlines of pattern parts by adapting or copying existing patterns, or by drafting new patterns. Create a paper pattern from which to mass-produce a design concept. Position and cut out master or sample patterns, using scissors and knives, or print out copies of patterns, using computers. Discuss design specifications with designers, and convert their original models of garments into patterns of separate parts that can be laid out on a length of fabric. Mark samples and finished patterns with information such as garment size, section, style, identification, and sewing instructions. Compute dimensions of patterns according to sizes, considering stretching of material. Examine sketches, sample articles, and design specifications to determine quantities, shapes, and sizes of pattern parts, and to determine the amount of material or fabric required to make a product. Trace outlines of paper onto cardboard patterns, and cut patterns into parts to make templates. Trace outlines of specified patterns onto material, and cut fabric using scissors.
51-6093| Upholsterers|Fit, install, and secure material on frames, using hand tools, power tools, glue, cement, or staples. Build furniture up with loose fiber stuffing, cotton, felt, or foam padding to form smooth, rounded surfaces. Examine furniture frames, upholstery, springs, and webbing to locate defects. Attach fasteners, grommets, buttons, buckles, ornamental trim, and other accessories to covers or frames, using hand tools. Remove covering, webbing, padding, or defective springs from workpieces, using hand tools such as hammers and tack pullers. Read work orders, and apply knowledge and experience with materials to determine types and amounts of materials required to cover workpieces. Draw cutting lines on material following patterns, templates, sketches, or blueprints, using chalk, pencils, paint, or other methods. Make, restore, or create custom upholstered furniture, using hand tools and knowledge of fabrics and upholstery methods. Measure and cut new covering materials, using patterns and measuring and cutting instruments, following sketches and design specifications. Maintain records of time required to perform each job. Discuss upholstery fabrics, colors, and styles with customers, and provide cost estimates. Repair furniture frames and refinish exposed wood. Operate sewing machines or sew upholstery by hand to seam cushions and join various sections of covering material. Pick up and deliver furniture. Interweave and fasten strips of webbing to the backs and undersides of furniture, using small hand tools and fasteners. Sew rips or tears in material, or create tufting, using needles and thread. Attach bindings or apply solutions to edges of cut material to prevent raveling. Adjust or replace webbing, padding, or springs, and secure them in place. Stretch webbing and fabric, using webbing stretchers. Design upholstery cover patterns and cutting plans, based on sketches, customer descriptions, or blueprints.
51-7011| Cabinetmakers and Bench Carpenters|Verify dimensions or check the quality or fit of pieces to ensure adherence to specifications. Produce or assemble components of articles, such as store fixtures, office equipment, cabinets, or high-grade furniture. Measure and mark dimensions of parts on paper or lumber stock prior to cutting, following blueprints, to ensure a tight fit and quality product. Set up or operate machines, including power saws, jointers, mortisers, tenoners, molders, or shapers, to cut, mold, or shape woodstock or wood substitutes. Establish the specifications of articles to be constructed or repaired or plan the methods or operations for shaping or assembling parts, based on blueprints, drawings, diagrams, or oral or written instructions. Attach parts or subassemblies together to form completed units, using glue, dowels, nails, screws, or clamps. Reinforce joints with nails or other fasteners to prepare articles for finishing. Install hardware, such as hinges, handles, catches, or drawer pulls, using hand tools. Trim, sand, or scrape surfaces or joints to prepare articles for finishing. Match materials for color, grain, or texture, giving attention to knots or other features of the wood. Cut timber to the right size and shape and trim parts of joints to ensure a snug fit, using hand tools, such as planes, chisels, or wood files. Perform final touch-ups with sandpaper or steel wool. Bore holes for insertion of screws or dowels, by hand or using boring machines. Repair or alter wooden furniture, cabinetry, fixtures, paneling, or other pieces. Estimate the amounts, types, or costs of needed materials. Dip, brush, or spray assembled articles with protective or decorative finishes, such as stain, varnish, paint, or lacquer. Draw up detailed specifications and discuss projects with customers. Design furniture, using computer-aided drawing programs. Apply Masonite, formica, or vinyl surfacing materials. Program computers to operate machinery.
51-7021| Furniture Finishers|Mix finish ingredients to obtain desired colors or shades. Brush, spray, or hand-rub finishing ingredients, such as paint, oil, stain, or wax, onto and into wood grain and apply lacquer or other sealers. Smooth, shape, and touch up surfaces to prepare them for finishing, using sandpaper, pumice stones, steel wool, chisels, sanders, or grinders. Select appropriate finishing ingredients such as paint, stain, lacquer, shellac, or varnish, depending on factors such as wood hardness and surface type. Fill and smooth cracks or depressions, remove marks and imperfections, and repair broken parts, using plastic or wood putty, glue, nails, or screws. Distress surfaces with woodworking tools or abrasives before staining to create an antique appearance, or rub surfaces to bring out highlights and shadings. Examine furniture to determine the extent of damage or deterioration, and to decide on the best method for repair or restoration. Paint metal surfaces electrostatically, or by using a spray gun or other painting equipment. Recommend woods, colors, finishes, and furniture styles, using knowledge of wood products, fashions, and styles. Remove old finishes and damaged or deteriorated parts, using hand tools, stripping tools, sandpaper, steel wool, abrasives, solvents, or dip baths. Follow blueprints to produce specific designs. Disassemble items to prepare them for finishing, using hand tools. Wash surfaces to prepare them for finish application. Remove accessories prior to finishing, and mask areas that should not be exposed to finishing processes or substances. Treat warped or stained surfaces to restore original contours and colors. Confer with customers to determine furniture colors or finishes. Replace or refurbish upholstery of items, using tacks, adhesives, softeners, solvents, stains, or polish. Remove excess solvent, using cloths soaked in paint thinner. Stencil, gild, emboss, mark, or paint designs or borders to reproduce the original appearance of restored pieces, or to decorate new pieces.
51-7031| Model Makers, Wood|Verify dimensions and contours of models during hand-forming processes, using templates and measuring devices. Read blueprints, drawings, or written specifications, and consult with designers to determine sizes and shapes of patterns and required machine setups. Set up, operate, and adjust a variety of woodworking machines such as bandsaws and planers to cut and shape sections, parts, and patterns, according to specifications. Fit, fasten, and assemble wood parts together to form patterns, models, or sections, using glue, nails, dowels, bolts, screws, and other fasteners. Trim, smooth, and shape surfaces, and plane, shave, file, scrape, and sand models to attain specified shapes, using hand tools. Select wooden stock, determine layouts, and mark layouts of parts on stock, using precision equipment such as scribers, squares, and protractors. Construct wooden models, patterns, templates, full scale mock-ups, and molds for parts of products and production tools. Mark identifying information on patterns, parts, and templates to indicate assembly methods and details. Plan, lay out, and draw outlines of units, sectional patterns, or full-scale mock-ups of products. Fabricate work aids such as scrapers or templates. Maintain pattern records for reference. Build jigs that can be used as guides for assembling oversized or special types of box shooks. Issue patterns to designated machine operators. Finish patterns or models with protective or decorative coatings such as shellac, lacquer, or wax.
51-7032| Patternmakers, Wood|Read blueprints, drawings, or written specifications to determine sizes and shapes of patterns and required machine setups. Lay out patterns on wood stock and draw outlines of units, sectional patterns, or full-scale mock-ups of products, based on blueprint specifications and sketches, and using marking and measuring devices. Verify dimensions of completed patterns, using templates, straightedges, calipers, or protractors. Set up, operate, and adjust a variety of woodworking machines such as bandsaws and lathes to cut and shape sections, parts, and patterns, according to specifications. Trim, smooth, and shape surfaces, and plane, shave, file, scrape, and sand models to attain specified shapes, using hand tools. Fit, fasten, and assemble wood parts together to form patterns, models, or sections, using glue, nails, dowels, bolts, and screws. Correct patterns to compensate for defects in castings. Construct wooden models, templates, full scale mock-ups, jigs, or molds for shaping parts of products. Compute dimensions, areas, volumes, and weights. Mark identifying information such as colors or codes on patterns, parts, and templates to indicate assembly methods. Finish completed products or models with shellac, lacquer, wax, or paint. Glue fillets along interior angles of patterns. Select lumber to be used for patterns. Repair broken or damaged patterns. Maintain pattern records for reference. Inventory equipment and supplies, ordering parts and tools as necessary. Estimate costs for patternmaking jobs. Divide patterns into sections according to shapes of castings to facilitate removal of patterns from molds. Issue patterns to designated machine operators.
51-7041| Sawing Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Wood|Inspect and measure workpieces to mark for cuts and to verify the accuracy of cuts, using rulers, squares, or caliper rules. Adjust saw blades, using wrenches and rulers, or by turning handwheels or pressing pedals, levers, or panel buttons. Mount and bolt sawing blades or attachments to machine shafts. Set up, operate, or tend saws or machines that cut or trim wood to specified dimensions, such as circular saws, band saws, multiple-blade sawing machines, scroll saws, ripsaws, or crozer machines. Inspect stock for imperfections or to estimate grades or qualities of stock or workpieces. Monitor sawing machines, adjusting speed and tension and clearing jams to ensure proper operation. Sharpen blades or replace defective or worn blades or bands, using hand tools. Guide workpieces against saws, saw over workpieces by hand, or operate automatic feeding devices to guide cuts. Clear machine jams, using hand tools. Lubricate or clean machines, using wrenches, grease guns, or solvents. Adjust bolts, clamps, stops, guides, or table angles or heights, using hand tools. Examine logs or lumber to plan the best cuts. Trim lumber to straighten rough edges or remove defects, using circular saws. Count, sort, or stack finished workpieces. Position and clamp stock on tables, conveyors, or carriages, using hoists, guides, stops, dogs, wedges, or wrenches. Measure and mark stock for cuts. Operate panelboards of saw or conveyor systems to move stock through processes or to cut stock to specified dimensions. Examine blueprints, drawings, work orders, or patterns to determine equipment set-up or selection details, procedures to be used, or dimensions of final products. Pull tables back against stops and depress pedals to advance cutterheads that shape stock ends. Select saw blades, types or grades of stock, or cutting procedures to be used, according to work orders or supervisors' instructions. Cut grooves, bevels, or miters, saw curved or irregular designs, and sever or shape metals, according to specifications or work orders. Unclamp and remove finished workpieces from tables. Dispose of waste material after completing work assignments.
51-7042| Woodworking Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders, Except Sawing|Set up, program, operate, or tend computerized or manual woodworking machines, such as drill presses, lathes, shapers, routers, sanders, planers, or wood-nailing machines. Examine finished workpieces for smoothness, shape, angle, depth-of-cut, or conformity to specifications and verify dimensions, visually and using hands, rules, calipers, templates, or gauges. Start machines, adjust controls, and make trial cuts to ensure that machinery is operating properly. Monitor operation of machines and make adjustments to correct problems and ensure conformance to specifications. Examine raw woodstock for defects and to ensure conformity to size and other specification standards. Adjust machine tables or cutting devices and set controls on machines to produce specified cuts or operations. Install and adjust blades, cutterheads, boring-bits, or sanding-belts, using hand tools and rules. Change alignment and adjustment of sanding, cutting, or boring machine guides to prevent defects in finished products, using hand tools. Determine product specifications and materials, work methods, and machine setup requirements, according to blueprints, oral or written instructions, drawings, or work orders. Feed stock through feed mechanisms or conveyors into planing, shaping, boring, mortising, or sanding machines to produce desired components. Push or hold workpieces against, under, or through cutting, boring, or shaping mechanisms. Select knives, saws, blades, cutter heads, cams, bits, or belts, according to workpiece, machine functions, or product specifications. Remove and replace worn parts, bits, belts, sandpaper, or shaping tools. Secure woodstock against a guide or in a holding device, place woodstock on a conveyor, or dump woodstock in a hopper to feed woodstock into machines. Inspect and mark completed workpieces and stack them on pallets, in boxes, or on conveyors so that they can be moved to the next workstation. Inspect pulleys, drive belts, guards, or fences on machines to ensure that machines will operate safely. Clean or maintain products, machines, or work areas. Attach and adjust guides, stops, clamps, chucks, or feed mechanisms, using hand tools. Trim wood parts according to specifications, using planes, chisels, or wood files or sanders. Grease or oil woodworking machines. Unclamp workpieces and remove them from machines. Start machines and move levers to engage hydraulic lifts that press woodstocks into desired forms and disengage lifts after appropriate drying times. Operate gluing machines to glue pieces of wood together, or to press and affix wood veneer to wood surfaces. Set up, program, or control computer-aided design (CAD) or computer numerical control (CNC) machines. Control hoists to remove parts or products from work stations.
51-8011| Nuclear Power Reactor Operators|Operate nuclear power reactors in accordance with policies and procedures to protect workers from radiation and to ensure environmental safety. Adjust controls to position rod and to regulate flux level, reactor period, coolant temperature, or rate of power flow, following standard procedures. Develop or implement actions such as lockouts, tagouts, or clearances to allow equipment to be safely repaired. Respond to system or unit abnormalities, diagnosing the cause, and recommending or taking corrective action. Monitor all systems for normal running conditions, performing activities such as checking gauges to assess output or the effects of generator loading on other equipment. Monitor or operate boilers, turbines, wells, or auxiliary power plant equipment. Record operating data, such as the results of surveillance tests. Implement operational procedures, such as those controlling start-up or shut-down activities. Note malfunctions of equipment, instruments, or controls and report these conditions to supervisors. Participate in nuclear fuel element handling activities, such as preparation, transfer, loading, or unloading. Dispatch orders or instructions to personnel through radiotelephone or intercommunication systems to coordinate auxiliary equipment operation. Review and edit standard operating procedures. Conduct inspections or operations outside of control rooms as necessary. Direct reactor operators in emergency situations, in accordance with emergency operating procedures. Authorize maintenance activities on units or changes in equipment or system operational status. Supervise technicians' work activities to ensure that equipment is operated in accordance with policies and procedures that protect workers from radiation and ensure environmental safety. Authorize actions to correct identified operational inefficiencies or hazards so that operating efficiency is maximized and potential environmental issues are minimized. Direct the collection and testing of air, water, gas, or solid samples to determine radioactivity levels or to ensure appropriate radioactive containment. Direct measurement of the intensity or types of radiation in work areas, equipment, or materials. Identify or direct implementation of appropriate decontamination procedures, based on equipment and the size, nature, and type of contamination.
51-8012| Power Distributors and Dispatchers|Respond to emergencies, such as transformer or transmission line failures, and route current around affected areas. Prepare switching orders that will isolate work areas without causing power outages, referring to drawings of power systems. Control, monitor, or operate equipment that regulates or distributes electricity or steam, using data obtained from instruments or computers. Coordinate with engineers, planners, field personnel, or other utility workers to provide information such as clearances, switching orders, or distribution process changes. Distribute or regulate the flow of power between entities, such as generating stations, substations, distribution lines, or users, keeping track of the status of circuits or connections. Record and compile operational data, such as chart or meter readings, power demands, or usage and operating times, using transmission system maps. Manipulate controls to adjust or activate power distribution equipment or machines. Track conditions that could affect power needs, such as changes in the weather, and adjust equipment to meet any anticipated changes. Calculate load estimates or equipment requirements to determine required control settings. Direct personnel engaged in controlling or operating distribution equipment or machinery, such as instructing control room operators to start boilers or generators. Monitor and record switchboard or control board readings to ensure that electrical or steam distribution equipment is operating properly. Inspect equipment to ensure that specifications are met or to detect any defects. Implement energy schedules, including real-time transmission reservations or schedules. Tend auxiliary equipment used in the power distribution process. Repair, maintain, or clean equipment or machinery, using hand tools.
51-8013| Power Plant Operators|Adjust controls to generate specified electrical power or to regulate the flow of power between generating stations and substations. Monitor power plant equipment and indicators to detect evidence of operating problems. Control generator output to match the phase, frequency, or voltage of electricity supplied to panels. Control or maintain auxiliary equipment, such as pumps, fans, compressors, condensers, feedwater heaters, filters, or chlorinators, to supply water, fuel, lubricants, air, or auxiliary power. Control power generating equipment, including boilers, turbines, generators, or reactors, using control boards or semi-automatic equipment. Start or stop generators, auxiliary pumping equipment, turbines, or other power plant equipment as necessary. Open and close valves and switches in sequence to start or shut down auxiliary units. Communicate with systems operators to regulate and coordinate line voltages and transmission loads and frequencies. Inspect records or log book entries or communicate with plant personnel to assess equipment operating status. Regulate equipment operations and conditions, such as water levels, based on instrument data or from computers. Take regulatory action, based on readings from charts, meters and gauges, at established intervals. Record and compile operational data by completing and maintaining forms, logs, or reports. Clean, lubricate, or maintain equipment, such as generators, turbines, pumps, or compressors, to prevent failure or deterioration. Place standby emergency electrical generators on line in emergencies and monitor the temperature, output, and lubrication of the system. Make adjustments or minor repairs, such as tightening leaking gland and pipe joints. Operate, control, or monitor equipment, such as acid or gas carbon dioxide removal units, carbon dioxide compressors, and pipelines, to capture, store, or transport carbon dioxide exhaust. Operate, control, or monitor gasifiers or related equipment, such as coolers, water quenches, water gas shifts reactors, or sulfur recovery units, to produce syngas or electricity from coal. Operate, control, or monitor integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) or related equipment, such as air separation units, to generate electricity from coal. Operate or maintain distributed power generation equipment, including fuel cells or microturbines, to produce energy on-site for manufacturing or other commercial purposes. Examine and test electrical power distribution machinery and equipment, using testing devices. Receive outage calls and request necessary personnel during power outages or emergencies. Replenish electrolytes in batteries and oil in voltage transformers, and reset tripped electric relays. Collect oil, water, or electrolyte samples for laboratory analysis. Inspect thermal barrier coatings on integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) equipment for sintering, phase destabilization, or temperature variances to ensure compliance with standards and insulation efficiency.
51-8021| Stationary Engineers and Boiler Operators|Monitor and inspect equipment, computer terminals, switches, valves, gauges, alarms, safety devices, and meters to detect leaks or malfunctions and to ensure that equipment is operating efficiently and safely. Activate valves to maintain required amounts of water in boilers, to adjust supplies of combustion air, and to control the flow of fuel into burners. Monitor boiler water, chemical, and fuel levels, and make adjustments to maintain required levels. Observe and interpret readings on gauges, meters, and charts registering various aspects of boiler operation to ensure that boilers are operating properly. Test boiler water quality or arrange for testing and take necessary corrective action, such as adding chemicals to prevent corrosion and harmful deposits. Analyze problems and take appropriate action to ensure continuous and reliable operation of equipment and systems. Operate or tend stationary engines, boilers, and auxiliary equipment such as pumps, compressors, and air-conditioning equipment, to supply and maintain steam or heat for buildings, marine vessels, or pneumatic tools. Adjust controls and/or valves on equipment to provide power, and to regulate and set operations of system or industrial processes. Switch from automatic to manual controls and isolate equipment mechanically and electrically to allow for safe inspection and repair work. Maintain daily logs of operation, maintenance, and safety activities, including test results, instrument readings, and details of equipment malfunctions and maintenance work. Investigate and report on accidents. Develop operation, safety, and maintenance procedures or assist in their development. Install burners and auxiliary equipment, using hand tools. Perform or arrange for repairs, such as complete overhauls, replacement of defective valves, gaskets, or bearings, or fabrication of new parts. Check the air quality of ventilation systems and make adjustments to ensure compliance with mandated safety codes. Weigh, measure, and record fuel used. Clean and lubricate boilers and auxiliary equipment and make minor adjustments as needed, using hand tools. Contact equipment manufacturers or appropriate specialists when necessary to resolve equipment problems. Fire coal furnaces by hand or with stokers and gas- or oil-fed boilers, using automatic gas feeds or oil pumps. Receive instructions from steam engineers regarding steam plant and air compressor operations. Ignite fuel in burners, using torches or flames. Supervise the work of assistant stationary engineers, turbine operators, boiler tenders, or air conditioning and refrigeration operators and mechanics. Operate mechanical hoppers and provide assistance in their adjustment and repair. Test electrical systems to determine voltages, using voltage meters. Provide assistance to plumbers in repairing or replacing water, sewer, or waste lines, and in daily maintenance activities.
51-8031| Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant and System Operators|Add chemicals, such as ammonia, chlorine, or lime, to disinfect and deodorize water and other liquids. Inspect equipment or monitor operating conditions, meters, and gauges to determine load requirements and detect malfunctions. Collect and test water and sewage samples, using test equipment and color analysis standards. Record operational data, personnel attendance, or meter and gauge readings on specified forms. Operate and adjust controls on equipment to purify and clarify water, process or dispose of sewage, and generate power. Maintain, repair, and lubricate equipment, using hand tools and power tools. Clean and maintain tanks, filter beds, and other work areas, using hand tools and power tools. Direct and coordinate plant workers engaged in routine operations and maintenance activities.
51-8091| Chemical Plant and System Operators|Monitor recording instruments, flowmeters, panel lights, or other indicators and listen for warning signals, to verify conformity of process conditions. Regulate or shut down equipment during emergency situations, as directed by supervisory personnel. Control or operate chemical processes or systems of machines, using panelboards, control boards, or semi-automatic equipment. Move control settings to make necessary adjustments on equipment units affecting speeds of chemical reactions, quality, or yields. Inspect operating units, such as towers, soap-spray storage tanks, scrubbers, collectors, or driers to ensure that all are functioning and to maintain maximum efficiency. Draw samples of products and conduct quality control tests to monitor processing and to ensure that standards are met. Record operating data, such as process conditions, test results, or instrument readings. Patrol work areas to ensure that solutions in tanks or troughs are not in danger of overflowing. Turn valves to regulate flow of products or byproducts through agitator tanks, storage drums, or neutralizer tanks. Interpret chemical reactions visible through sight glasses or on television monitors and review laboratory test reports for process adjustments. Confer with technical and supervisory personnel to report or resolve conditions affecting safety, efficiency, or product quality. Start pumps to wash and rinse reactor vessels, to exhaust gases or vapors, to regulate the flow of oil, steam, air, or perfume to towers, or to add products to converter or blending vessels. Notify maintenance, stationary-engineering, or other auxiliary personnel to correct equipment malfunctions or to adjust power, steam, water, or air supplies. Repair or replace damaged equipment. Gauge tank levels, using calibrated rods. Calculate material requirements or yields according to formulas. Direct workers engaged in operating machinery that regulates the flow of materials and products. Supervise the cleaning of towers, strainers, or spray tips. Defrost frozen valves, using steam hoses.
51-8092| Gas Plant Operators|Monitor transportation and storage of flammable and other potentially dangerous products to ensure that safety guidelines are followed. Monitor equipment functioning, observe temperature, level, and flow gauges, and perform regular unit checks to ensure that all equipment is operating as it should. Control operation of compressors, scrubbers, evaporators, and refrigeration equipment to liquefy, compress, or regasify natural gas. Start and shut down plant equipment. Record, review, and compile operations records, test results, and gauge readings such as temperatures, pressures, concentrations, and flows. Adjust temperature, pressure, vacuum, level, flow rate, or transfer of gas to maintain processes at required levels or to correct problems. Clean, maintain, and repair equipment, using hand tools, or request that repair and maintenance work be performed. Collaborate with other operators to solve unit problems. Determine causes of abnormal pressure variances, and make corrective recommendations, such as installation of pipes to relieve overloading. Read logsheets to determine product demand and disposition, or to detect malfunctions. Test gas, chemicals, and air during processing to assess factors such as purity and moisture content, and to detect quality problems or gas or chemical leaks. Contact maintenance crews when necessary. Change charts in recording meters. Distribute or process gas for utility companies or industrial plants, using panel boards, control boards, and semi-automatic equipment. Control equipment to regulate flow and pressure of gas to feedlines of boilers, furnaces, and related steam-generating or heating equipment. Control fractioning columns, compressors, purifying towers, heat exchangers, and related equipment to extract nitrogen and oxygen from air. Calculate gas ratios to detect deviations from specifications, using testing apparatus. Signal or direct workers who tend auxiliary equipment. Operate construction equipment to install and maintain gas distribution systems.
51-8093| Petroleum Pump System Operators, Refinery Operators, and Gaugers|Monitor process indicators, instruments, gauges, and meters to detect and report any possible problems. Start pumps and open valves or use automated equipment to regulate the flow of oil in pipelines and into and out of tanks. Control or operate manifold and pumping systems to circulate liquids through a petroleum refinery. Operate control panels to coordinate and regulate process variables such as temperature and pressure, and to direct product flow rate, according to process schedules. Signal other workers by telephone or radio to operate pumps, open and close valves, and check temperatures. Verify that incoming and outgoing products are moving through the correct meters, and that meters are working properly. Read automatic gauges at specified intervals to determine the flow rate of oil into or from tanks, and the amount of oil in tanks. Operate auxiliary equipment and control multiple processing units during distilling or treating operations, moving controls that regulate valves, pumps, compressors, and auxiliary equipment. Plan movement of products through lines to processing, storage, and shipping units, using knowledge of system interconnections and capacities. Read and analyze specifications, schedules, logs, test results, and laboratory recommendations to determine how to set equipment controls to produce the required qualities and quantities of products. Record and compile operating data, instrument readings, documentation, and results of laboratory analyses. Synchronize activities with other pumphouses to ensure a continuous flow of products and a minimum of contamination between products. Patrol units to monitor the amount of oil in storage tanks, and to verify that activities and operations are safe, efficient, and in compliance with regulations. Maintain and repair equipment, or report malfunctioning equipment to supervisors so that repairs can be scheduled. Collect product samples by turning bleeder valves, or by lowering containers into tanks to obtain oil samples. Inspect pipelines, tightening connections and lubricating valves as necessary. Conduct general housekeeping of units, including wiping up oil spills and performing general cleaning duties. Coordinate shutdowns and major projects. Perform tests to check the qualities and grades of products, such as assessing levels of bottom sediment, water, and foreign materials in oil samples, using centrifugal testers. Prepare calculations for receipts and deliveries of oil and oil products. Lower thermometers into tanks to obtain temperature readings. Clean interiors of processing units by circulating chemicals and solvents within units. Clamp seals around valves to secure tanks. Calculate test result values, using standard formulas.
51-9011| Chemical Equipment Operators and Tenders|Observe safety precautions to prevent fires or explosions. Record operational data, such as temperatures, pressures, ingredients used, processing times, or test results. Control or operate equipment in which chemical changes or reactions take place during the processing of industrial or consumer products. Patrol work areas to detect leaks or equipment malfunctions or to monitor operating conditions. Draw samples of products at specified stages so that analyses can be performed. Adjust controls to regulate temperature, pressure, feed, or flow of liquids or gases and times of prescribed reactions, according to knowledge of equipment and processes. Monitor gauges, recording instruments, flowmeters, or products to ensure that specified conditions are maintained. Test product samples for specific gravity, chemical characteristics, pH levels, concentrations, or viscosities or send them to laboratories for testing. Inspect equipment or units to detect leaks or malfunctions, shutting equipment down if necessary. Open valves or start pumps, agitators, reactors, blowers, or automatic feed of materials. Read plant specifications to determine products, ingredients, or prescribed modifications of plant procedures. Implement appropriate industrial emergency response procedures. Measure, weigh, and mix chemical ingredients, according to specifications. Dump or scoop prescribed solid, granular, or powdered materials into equipment. Notify maintenance engineers of equipment malfunctions. Estimate materials required for production and manufacturing of products. Add treating or neutralizing agents to products and pump products through filters or centrifuges to remove impurities or to precipitate products. Observe and compare colors and consistencies of products to instrument readings and to laboratory and standard test results. Direct activities of workers assisting in control or verification of processes or in unloading of materials. Drain equipment and pump water or other solutions through to flush and clean tanks or equipment. Flush or clean equipment, using steam hoses or mechanical reamers. Make minor repairs, lubricate, and maintain equipment, using hand tools. Inventory supplies received and consumed.
51-9012| Separating, Filtering, Clarifying, Precipitating, and Still Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Dump, pour, or load specified amounts of refined or unrefined materials into equipment or containers for further processing or storage. Operate machines to process materials in compliance with applicable safety, energy, or environmental regulations. Monitor material flow or instruments such as temperature or pressure gauges, indicators, or meters to ensure optimal processing conditions. Turn valves or move controls to admit, drain, separate, filter, clarify, mix, or transfer materials. Set up or adjust machine controls to regulate conditions such as material flow, temperature, or pressure. Examine samples to verify qualities such as clarity, cleanliness, consistency, dryness, or texture. Start agitators, shakers, conveyors, pumps, or centrifuge machines. Inspect machines or equipment for hazards, operating efficiency, malfunctions, wear, or leaks. Collect samples of materials or products for laboratory analysis. Communicate processing instructions to other workers. Turn valves to pump sterilizing solutions or rinse water through pipes or equipment or to spray vats with atomizers. Maintain logs of instrument readings, test results, or shift production for entry in computer databases. Remove clogs, defects, or impurities from machines, tanks, conveyors, screens, or other processing equipment. Clean or sterilize tanks, screens, inflow pipes, production areas, or equipment, using hoses, brushes, scrapers, or chemical solutions. Measure or weigh materials to be refined, mixed, transferred, stored, or otherwise processed. Test samples to determine viscosity, acidity, specific gravity, or degree of concentration, using test equipment such as viscometers, pH meters, or hydrometers. Install, maintain, or repair hoses, pumps, filters, or screens to maintain processing equipment, using hand tools. Connect pipes between vats and processing equipment. Assemble fittings, valves, bowls, plates, disks, impeller shafts, or other parts to prepare equipment for operation. Remove full containers from discharge outlets and replace them with empty containers.
51-9021| Crushing, Grinding, and Polishing Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Read work orders to determine production specifications and information. Observe operation of equipment to ensure continuity of flow, safety, and efficient operation, and to detect malfunctions. Move controls to start, stop, or adjust machinery and equipment that crushes, grinds, polishes, or blends materials. Record data from operations, testing, and production on specified forms. Examine materials, ingredients, or products, visually or with hands, to ensure conformance to established standards. Weigh or measure materials, ingredients, or products at specified intervals to ensure conformance to requirements. Clean, adjust and maintain equipment, using hand tools. Notify supervisors of needed repairs. Set mill gauges to specified fineness of grind. Reject defective products and readjust equipment to eliminate problems. Clean work areas. Transfer materials, supplies, and products between work areas, using moving equipment and hand tools. Dislodge and clear jammed materials or other items from machinery and equipment, using hand tools. Inspect chains, belts, or scrolls for signs of wear. Tend accessory equipment, such as pumps and conveyors, to move materials or ingredients through production processes. Test samples of materials or products to ensure compliance with specifications, using test equipment. Collect samples of materials or products for laboratory testing. Mark bins as to types of mixtures stored. Turn valves to regulate the moisture contents of materials. Load materials into machinery and equipment, using hand tools. Add or mix chemicals and ingredients for processing, using hand tools or other devices. Break mixtures to size, using picks.
51-9022| Grinding and Polishing Workers, Hand|Grind, sand, clean, or polish objects or parts to correct defects or to prepare surfaces for further finishing, using hand tools and power tools. Mark defects such as knotholes, cracks, and splits for repair. Move controls to adjust, start, or stop equipment during grinding and polishing processes. Select files or other abrasives, according to materials, sizes and shapes of workpieces, amount of stock to be removed, finishes specified, and steps in finishing processes. Measure and mark equipment, objects, or parts to ensure grinding and polishing standards are met. Verify quality of finished workpieces by inspecting them, comparing them to templates, measuring their dimensions, or testing them in working machinery. Record product and processing data on specified forms. Trim, scrape, or deburr objects or parts, using chisels, scrapers, and other hand tools and equipment. Remove completed workpieces from equipment or work tables, using hand tools, and place workpieces in containers. Load and adjust workpieces onto equipment or work tables, using hand tools. Transfer equipment, objects, or parts to specified work areas, using moving devices. Study blueprints or layouts to determine how to lay out workpieces or saw out templates. Apply solutions and chemicals to equipment, objects, or parts, using hand tools. Spread emery powder or other polishing compounds on stone, or wet stone surfaces with hoses, and guide buffing wheels over stone to polish surfaces. Wash grit from stone, using hoses. Repair and maintain equipment, objects, or parts, using hand tools. Sharpen abrasive grinding tools, using machines and hand tools. File grooved, contoured, and irregular surfaces of metal objects, such as metalworking dies and machine parts, to conform to templates, other parts, layouts, or blueprint specifications. Fill cracks or imperfections in marble with wax that matches the stone color.
51-9023| Mixing and Blending Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Weigh or measure materials, ingredients, or products to ensure conformance to requirements. Compound or process ingredients or dyes, according to formulas. Read work orders to determine production specifications or information. Observe production or monitor equipment to ensure safe and efficient operation. Mix or blend ingredients by starting machines and mixing for specified times. Dump or pour specified amounts of materials into machinery or equipment. Collect samples of materials or products for laboratory testing. Operate or tend machines to mix or blend any of a wide variety of materials, such as spices, dough batter, tobacco, fruit juices, chemicals, livestock feed, food products, color pigments, or explosive ingredients. Add or mix chemicals or ingredients for processing, using hand tools or other devices. Stop mixing or blending machines when specified product qualities are obtained and open valves and start pumps to transfer mixtures. Examine materials, ingredients, or products visually or with hands to ensure conformance to established standards. Transfer materials, supplies, or products between work areas, using moving equipment or hand tools. Test samples of materials or products to ensure compliance with specifications, using test equipment. Record operational or production data on specified forms. Tend accessory equipment, such as pumps or conveyors, to move materials or ingredients through production processes. Unload mixtures into containers or onto conveyors for further processing. Clean and maintain equipment, using hand tools. Open valves to drain slurry from mixers into storage tanks. Dislodge and clear jammed materials or other items from machinery or equipment, using hand tools.
51-9031| Cutters and Trimmers, Hand|Mark or discard items with defects such as spots, stains, scars, snags, chips, scratches, or unacceptable shapes or finishes. Trim excess material or cut threads off finished products, such as cutting loose ends of plastic off a manufactured toy for a smoother finish. Cut, shape, and trim materials, such as textiles, food, glass, stone, and metal, using knives, scissors, and other hand tools, portable power tools, or bench-mounted tools. Separate materials or products according to size, weight, type, condition, color, or shade. Mark identification numbers, trademarks, grades, marketing data, sizes, or model numbers on products. Read work orders to determine dimensions, cutting locations, and quantities to cut. Count or weigh and bundle items. Mark cutting lines around patterns or templates, or follow layout points, using squares, rules, and straightedges, and chalk, pencils, or scribes. Unroll, lay out, attach, or mount materials or items on cutting tables or machines. Stack cut items and load them on racks or conveyors or onto trucks. Fold or shape materials before or after cutting them. Clean, treat, buff, or polish finished items, using grinders, brushes, chisels, and cleaning solutions and polishing materials. Position templates or measure materials to locate specified points of cuts or to obtain maximum yields, using rules, scales, or patterns. Route items to provide cutouts for parts, using portable routers, grinders, and hand tools. Replace or sharpen dulled cutting tools such as saws. Lower table-mounted cutters such as knife blades, cutting wheels, or saws to cut items to specified sizes. Adjust guides and stops to control depths and widths of cuts. Transport items to work or storage areas, using carts.
51-9032| Cutting and Slicing Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Examine, measure, and weigh materials or products to verify conformance to specifications, using measuring devices such as rulers, micrometers, or scales. Set up, operate, or tend machines that cut or slice materials, such as glass, stone, cork, rubber, tobacco, food, paper, or insulating material. Stack and sort cut material for packaging, further processing, or shipping, according to types and sizes of material. Review work orders, blueprints, specifications, or job samples to determine components, settings, and adjustments for cutting and slicing machines. Type instructions on computer keyboards, push buttons to activate computer programs, or manually set cutting guides, clamps, and knives. Remove defective or substandard materials from machines, and readjust machine components so that products meet standards. Press buttons, pull levers, or depress pedals to start and operate cutting and slicing machines. Adjust machine controls to alter position, alignment, speed, or pressure. Maintain production records, such as quantities, types, and dimensions of materials produced. Monitor operation of cutting or slicing machines to detect malfunctions or to determine whether supplies need replenishment. Start machines to verify setups, and make any necessary adjustments. Remove completed materials or products from cutting or slicing machines, and stack or store them for additional processing. Select and install machine components such as cutting blades, rollers, and templates, according to specifications, using hand tools. Move stock or scrap to and from machines manually, or by using carts, handtrucks, or lift trucks. Clean and lubricate cutting machines, conveyors, blades, saws, or knives, using steam hoses, scrapers, brushes, or oil cans. Operate cranes, or signal crane operators to position or remove stone from cars or saw beds. Feed stock into cutting machines, onto conveyors, or under cutting blades, by threading, guiding, pushing, or turning handwheels. Position stock along cutting lines, or against stops on beds of scoring or cutting machines. Start pumps to circulate water and abrasives onto blades or cables during cutting. Change or replace saw blades, cables, cutter heads, and grinding wheels, using hand tools. Mark cutting lines or identifying information on stock, using marking pencils, rulers, or scribes. Turn cranks or press buttons to activate winches that move cars under sawing cables or saw frames. Position width gauge blocks between blades, and level blades and insert wedges into frames to secure blades to frames. Direct workers on cutting teams. Tighten pulleys or add abrasives to maintain cutting speeds. Cut stock manually to prepare for machine cutting, using tools such as knives, cleavers, handsaws, or hammers and chisels. Sharpen cutting blades, knives, or saws, using files, bench grinders, or honing stones. Wash stones, using water hoses.
51-9041| Extruding, Forming, Pressing, and Compacting Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Adjust machine components to regulate speeds, pressures, and temperatures, and amounts, dimensions, and flow of materials or ingredients. Examine, measure, and weigh materials or products to verify conformance to standards, using measuring devices such as templates, micrometers, or scales. Monitor machine operations and observe lights and gauges to detect malfunctions. Press control buttons to activate machinery and equipment. Turn controls to adjust machine functions, such as regulating air pressure, creating vacuums, and adjusting coolant flow. Review work orders, specifications, or instructions to determine materials, ingredients, procedures, components, settings, and adjustments for extruding, forming, pressing, or compacting machines. Select and install machine components such as dies, molds, and cutters, according to specifications, using hand tools and measuring devices. Record and maintain production data such as meter readings, and quantities, types, and dimensions of materials produced. Notify supervisors when extruded filaments fail to meet standards. Synchronize speeds of sections of machines when producing products involving several steps or processes. Feed products into machines by hand or conveyor. Clear jams, and remove defective or substandard materials or products. Move materials, supplies, components, and finished products between storage and work areas, using work aids such as racks, hoists, and handtrucks. Swab molds with solutions to prevent products from sticking. Complete work tickets, and place them with products. Activate machines to shape or form products such as candy bars, light bulbs, balloons, or insulation panels. Remove molds, mold components, and feeder tubes from machinery after production is complete. Remove materials or products from molds or from extruding, forming, pressing, or compacting machines, and stack or store them for additional processing. Measure, mix, cut, shape, soften, and join materials and ingredients such as powder, cornmeal, or rubber to prepare them for machine processing. Send product samples to laboratories for analysis. Thread extruded strips through water tanks and hold-down bars, or attach strands to wires and draw them through tubes. Ignite burners to preheat products, or use torches to apply heat. Clean dies, arbors, compression chambers, and molds, using swabs, sponges, or air hoses. Disassemble equipment to repair it or to replace parts such as nozzles, punches, and filters. Pour, scoop, or dump specified ingredients, metal assemblies, or mixtures into sections of machine prior to starting machines. Install, align, and adjust neck rings, press plungers, and feeder tubes. Couple air and gas lines to machines to maintain plasticity of material and to regulate solidification of final products.
51-9051| Furnace, Kiln, Oven, Drier, and Kettle Operators and Tenders|Monitor equipment operation, gauges, and panel lights to detect deviations from standards. Confer with supervisors or other equipment operators to report equipment malfunctions or to resolve production problems. Press and adjust controls to activate, set, and regulate equipment according to specifications. Record gauge readings, test results, and shift production in log books. Read and interpret work orders and instructions to determine work assignments, process specifications, and production schedules. Examine or test samples of processed substances, or collect samples for laboratory testing, to ensure conformance to specifications. Transport materials and products to and from work areas, manually or using carts, handtrucks, or hoists. Stop equipment and clear blockages or jams, using fingers, wire, or hand tools. Load equipment receptacles or conveyors with material to be processed, by hand or using hoists. Remove products from equipment, manually or using hoists, and prepare them for storage, shipment, or additional processing. Calculate amounts of materials to be loaded into furnaces, adjusting amounts as necessary for specific conditions. Melt or refine metal before casting, calculating required temperatures, and observe metal color, adjusting controls as necessary to maintain required temperatures. Weigh or measure specified amounts of ingredients or materials for processing, using devices such as scales and calipers. Direct crane operators and crew members to load vessels with materials to be processed. Feed fuel, such as coal and coke, into fireboxes or onto conveyors, and remove ashes from furnaces, using shovels and buckets. Replace worn or defective equipment parts, using hand tools. Clean, lubricate, and adjust equipment, using scrapers, solvents, air hoses, oil, and hand tools. Sprinkle chemicals on the surface of molten metal to bring impurities to surface and remove impurities, using strainers.
51-9061| Inspectors, Testers, Sorters, Samplers, and Weighers|Inspect, test, or measure materials, products, installations, or work for conformance to specifications. Measure dimensions of products to verify conformance to specifications, using measuring instruments such as rulers, calipers, gauges, or micrometers. Read blueprints, data, manuals, or other materials to determine specifications, inspection and testing procedures, adjustment methods, certification processes, formulas, or measuring instruments required. Record inspection or test data, such as weights, temperatures, grades, or moisture content, and quantities inspected or graded. Mark items with details such as grade or acceptance-rejection status. Notify supervisors or other personnel of production problems. Discard or reject products, materials, or equipment not meeting specifications. Collect or select samples for testing or for use as models. Write test or inspection reports describing results, recommendations, or needed repairs. Compare colors, shapes, textures, or grades of products or materials with color charts, templates, or samples to verify conformance to standards. Recommend necessary corrective actions, based on inspection results. Grade, classify, or sort products according to sizes, weights, colors, or other specifications. Analyze test data, making computations as necessary, to determine test results. Clean, maintain, calibrate, or repair measuring instruments or test equipment, such as dial indicators, fixed gauges, or height gauges. Remove defects, such as chips, burrs, or lap corroded or pitted surfaces. Read dials or meters to verify that equipment is functioning at specified levels. Check arriving materials to ensure that they match purchase orders, submitting discrepancy reports as necessary. Make minor adjustments to equipment, such as turning setscrews to calibrate instruments to required tolerances. Fabricate, install, position, or connect components, parts, finished products, or instruments for testing or operational purposes. Inspect or test raw materials, parts, or products to determine compliance with environmental standards. Compute defect percentages or averages, using formulas and calculators. Position products, components, or parts for testing. Stack or arrange tested products for further processing, shipping, or packaging. Monitor production operations or equipment to ensure conformance to specifications, making necessary process or assembly adjustments. Adjust, clean, or repair products or processing equipment to correct defects found during inspections. Monitor machines that automatically measure, sort, or inspect products. Compute usable amounts of items in shipments. Weigh materials, products, containers, or samples to verify packaging weights or ingredient quantities. Interpret legal requirements, provide safety information, or recommend compliance procedures to contractors, craft workers, engineers, or property owners. Disassemble defective parts or components, such as inaccurate or worn gauges or measuring instruments. Administer tests to assess whether engineers or operators are qualified to use equipment.
51-9071| Jewelers and Precious Stone and Metal Workers|Smooth soldered joints and rough spots, using hand files and emery paper, and polish smoothed areas with polishing wheels or buffing wire. Position stones and metal pieces, and set, mount, and secure items in place, using setting and hand tools. Create jewelry from materials such as gold, silver, platinum, and precious or semiprecious stones. Make repairs, such as enlarging or reducing ring sizes, soldering pieces of jewelry together, and replacing broken clasps and mountings. Clean and polish metal items and jewelry pieces, using jewelers' tools, polishing wheels, and chemical baths. Select and acquire metals and gems for designs. Compute costs of labor and materials in order to determine production costs of products and articles. Mark and drill holes in jewelry mountings in order to center stones according to design specifications. Examine assembled or finished products to ensure conformance to specifications, using magnifying glasses or precision measuring instruments. Construct preliminary models of wax, metal, clay, or plaster, and form sample castings in molds. Pour molten metal alloys or other materials into molds in order to cast models of jewelry. Cut, shape, and smooth gemstones, pearls, and metal pieces, using abrasives, grinding stones, and power and hand tools. Soften metal to be used in designs by heating it with a gas torch and shape it, using hammers and dies. Determine appraised values of diamonds and other gemstones based on price guides, market fluctuations, and stone grades and rarity. Alter existing jewelry mountings in order to reposition jewels or to adjust mountings. Grade stones based on their color, perfection, and quality of cut. Plate articles such as jewelry pieces and watch dials, using silver, gold, nickel, or other metals. Write or modify design specifications such as the metal contents and weights of items. Create new jewelry designs and modify existing designs, using computers as necessary. Examine gemstone surfaces and internal structures to evaluate genuineness, quality, and value, using polariscopes, refractometers, and other optical instruments. Buy and sell jewelry, or serve as agents between buyers and sellers. Record the weights and processing times of finished pieces. Lay out designs on metal stock, and cut along markings to fabricate pieces used to cast metal molds. Fabricate, modify, or repair jigs, fixtures, and hand tools such as scrapers, cutters, gougers, and shapers. Mark, engrave, or emboss designs on metal pieces such as castings, wire, or jewelry, following specifications. Cut designs in molds or other materials to be used as models in the fabrication of metal and jewelry products. Design and fabricate molds, models, and machine accessories, and modify hand tools used to cast metal and jewelry pieces. Research and analyze reference materials, and consult with interested parties in order to develop new products or modify existing designs. Weigh, mix, and melt metal alloys or materials needed for jewelry models. Remove mold castings from metal or jewelry workpieces, and place workpieces in water or on trays to cool. Place metal samples in frames, pack raw rubber around samples, and clamp samples, frames, and rubber into vulcanizing machines. Assemble and secure mold sections used to cast metal articles and pieces.Examine gems during processing to ensure accuracy of angles and positions of cuts or bores, using magnifying glasses, loupes, or shadowgraphs. Assign polish, symmetry, and clarity grades to stones, according to established grading systems. Estimate wholesale and retail value of gems, following pricing guides, market fluctuations, and other relevant economic factors. Examine gem surfaces and internal structures, using polariscopes, refractometers, microscopes, and other optical instruments, to differentiate between stones, to identify rare specimens, or to detect flaws, defects, or peculiarities affecting gem values. Identify and document stones' clarity characteristics, using plot diagrams. Advise customers and others on the best use of gems to create attractive jewelry items. Examine diamonds or gems to ascertain the shape, cut, and width of cut stones, or to select the cuts that will result in the biggest, best quality stones. Immerse stones in prescribed chemical solutions to determine specific gravities and key properties of gemstones or substitutes. Hold stones, gems, dies, or styluses against rotating plates, wheels, saws, or slitters to cut, shape, slit, grind, or polish them. Sort rough diamonds into categories based on shape, size, color, and quality. Secure gems or diamonds in holders, chucks, dops, lapidary sticks, or blocks for cutting, polishing, grinding, drilling, or shaping. Locate and mark drilling or cutting positions on stones or dies, using diamond chips and power hand tools. Place stones in clamps on polishing machines and polish facets of stones, using felt-covered or canvas-covered polishing wheels and polishing compounds such as tripoli and rouge. Lap girdles on rough diamonds, using diamond girdling lathes. Measure sizes of stones' bore holes and cuts to ensure adherence to specifications, using precision measuring instruments. Select shaping wheels for tasks, and mix and apply abrasives, bort, or polishing compounds. Split gems along pre-marked lines to remove imperfections, using blades and jewelers' hammers. Regulate the speed of revolutions and reciprocating actions of drilling mechanisms. Replace, true, and sharpen blades, drills, and plates. Secure stones in metal mountings, using solder. Dismantle lapping, boring, cutting, polishing, and shaping equipment and machinery to clean and lubricate it.Cut and file pieces of jewelry such as rings, brooches, bracelets, and lockets. Solder parts together or fill holes and cracks with metal solder, using gas torches. Polish articles by hand or by using a polishing wheel. Pierce and cut open designs in ornamentation, using hand drills and scroll saws. Position and align auxiliary parts in jigs and join parts, using solder and blowtorches. Examine articles to determine the nature of defects requiring repair, such as dents, uneven bottoms, scratches, or holes. Shape and straighten damaged or twisted articles by hand or using pliers. Anneal precious metal objects such as coffeepots, tea sets, and trays in gas ovens for prescribed times to soften metal for reworking. Rotate molds to distribute alloys and to prevent formation of air pockets. Weigh and mix alloy ingredients, using formulas and knowledge of ingredients' chemical properties. Carry castings or finished items to storage areas or to different work stations. Heat ingots or alloy mixtures to specified temperatures, stir mixtures, skim off impurities, and fill molds to form ingots from which parts are cast. Design and fabricate models of new casting molds, and chipping and turning tools used to finish product surfaces. Rout out locations where parts are to be joined to items, using routing machines. Determine placement of auxiliary parts, such as handles and spouts, and mark locations of parts. Form concavities in bottoms of articles to improve stability, using tracing punches and hammers. Weigh completed items to determine weights and record any deviations. Design silver articles, such as jewelry and serving pieces. Peen edges of scratches or holes to repair defects, using peening hammers. Secure molded items in chucks of lathes, and activate lathes to finish inner and outer surfaces of items. Research reference materials, analyze production data, and consult with interested parties to develop ideas for new products. Position articles over snarling tools and raise design areas, using foot-powered hammers. Trim gates and sharp points from cast parts, using band saws. Verify that bottom edges of articles are level, using straightedges or by rocking them back and forth on flat surfaces. Engrave decorative lines on items, using engraving tools. Sand interior mold parts to remove glaze residue, apply new glaze to molds, and allow it to dry for mold assembly. Strike articles with small tools, or punch them with hammers, to indent them or restore embossing. Wire parts such as legs, spouts, and handles to article bodies in preparation for soldering. Hammer out dents and bulges, selecting and using hammers and dollies with heads that correspond in curvature to article surfaces. Assemble molds, wrap molds in heat-resistant cloth, and ladle molten alloy into mold openings, repeating casting processes as necessary to produce specified numbers of parts. Strike molds to separate dried castings from molds.
51-9081| Dental Laboratory Technicians|Read prescriptions or specifications and examine models or impressions to determine the design of dental products to be constructed. Test appliances for conformance to specifications and accuracy of occlusion, using articulators and micrometers. Melt metals or mix plaster, porcelain, or acrylic pastes and pour materials into molds or over frameworks to form dental prostheses or apparatus. Create a model of patient's mouth by pouring plaster into a dental impression and allowing plaster to set. Place tooth models on apparatus that mimics bite and movement of patient's jaw to evaluate functionality of model. Fabricate, alter, or repair dental devices, such as dentures, crowns, bridges, inlays, or appliances for straightening teeth. Remove excess metal or porcelain and polish surfaces of prostheses or frameworks, using polishing machines. Apply porcelain paste or wax over prosthesis frameworks or setups, using brushes and spatulas. Prepare metal surfaces for bonding with porcelain to create artificial teeth, using small hand tools. Load newly constructed teeth into porcelain furnaces to bake the porcelain onto the metal framework. Build and shape wax teeth, using small hand instruments and information from observations or dentists' specifications. Mold wax over denture setups to form the full contours of artificial gums. Rebuild or replace linings, wire sections, or missing teeth to repair dentures. Prepare wax bite blocks and impression trays for use. Train or supervise other dental technicians or dental laboratory bench workers. Shape and solder wire and metal frames or bands for dental products, using soldering irons and hand tools. Fill chipped or low spots in surfaces of devices, using acrylic resins.
51-9082| Medical Appliance Technicians|Drill and tap holes for rivets and glue, weld, bolt, or rivet parts together to form prosthetic or orthotic devices. Read prescriptions or specifications to determine the type of product or device to be fabricated and the materials and tools that will be required. Make orthotic or prosthetic devices, using materials such as thermoplastic and thermosetting materials, metal alloys and leather, and hand or power tools. Bend, form, and shape fabric or material to conform to prescribed contours of structural components. Construct or receive casts or impressions of patients' torsos or limbs for use as cutting and fabrication patterns. Repair, modify, or maintain medical supportive devices, such as artificial limbs, braces, or surgical supports, according to specifications. Cover or pad metal or plastic structures or devices, using coverings such as rubber, leather, felt, plastic, or fiberglass. Test medical supportive devices for proper alignment, movement, or biomechanical stability, using meters and alignment fixtures. Lay out and mark dimensions of parts, using templates and precision measuring instruments. Fit appliances onto patients and make any necessary adjustments. Polish artificial limbs, braces, or supports, using grinding and buffing wheels. Take patients' body or limb measurements for use in device construction. Instruct patients in use of prosthetic or orthotic devices. Service or repair machinery used in the fabrication of appliances. Mix pigments to match patients' skin coloring, according to formulas, and apply mixtures to orthotic or prosthetic devices.
51-9083| Ophthalmic Laboratory Technicians|Mount and secure lens blanks or optical lenses in holding tools or chucks of cutting, polishing, grinding, or coating machines. Inspect lens blanks to detect flaws, verify smoothness of surface, and ensure thickness of coating on lenses. Set up machines to polish, bevel, edge, or grind lenses, flats, blanks, or other precision optical elements. Inspect, weigh, and measure mounted or unmounted lenses after completion to verify alignment and conformance to specifications, using precision instruments. Shape lenses appropriately so that they can be inserted into frames. Clean finished lenses and eyeglasses, using cloths and solvents. Mount, secure, and align finished lenses in frames or optical assemblies, using precision hand tools. Examine prescriptions, work orders, or broken or used eyeglasses to determine specifications for lenses, contact lenses, or other optical elements. Adjust lenses and frames to correct alignment. Select lens blanks, molds, tools, and polishing or grinding wheels, according to production specifications. Position and adjust cutting tools to specified curvature, dimensions, and depth of cut. Assemble eyeglass frames and attach shields, nose pads, and temple pieces, using pliers, screwdrivers, and drills. Set dials and start machines to polish lenses or hold lenses against rotating wheels to polish them manually. Repair broken parts, using precision hand tools and soldering irons. Immerse eyeglass frames in solutions to harden, soften, or dye frames. Lay out lenses and trace lens outlines on glass, using templates. Control equipment that coats lenses to alter their reflective qualities. Remove lenses from molds and separate lenses in containers for further processing or storage.
51-9111| Packaging and Filling Machine Operators and Tenders|Sort, grade, weigh, and inspect products, verifying and adjusting product weight or measurement to meet specifications. Observe machine operations to ensure quality and conformity of filled or packaged products to standards. Monitor the production line, watching for problems such as pile-ups, jams, or glue that isn't sticking properly. Attach identification labels to finished packaged items, or cut stencils and stencil information on containers, such as lot numbers or shipping destinations. Stock and sort product for packaging or filling machine operation, and replenish packaging supplies, such as wrapping paper, plastic sheet, boxes, cartons, glue, ink, or labels. Package the product in the form in which it will be sent out, for example, filling bags with flour from a chute or spout. Inspect and remove defective products and packaging material. Start machine by engaging controls. Remove finished packaged items from machine and separate rejected items. Count and record finished and rejected packaged items. Adjust machine components and machine tension and pressure according to size or processing angle of product. Stop or reset machines when malfunctions occur, clear machine jams, and report malfunctions to a supervisor. Stack finished packaged items, or wrap protective material around each item, and pack the items in cartons or containers. Regulate machine flow, speed, or temperature. Tend or operate machine that packages product. Supply materials to spindles, conveyors, hoppers, or other feeding devices and unload packaged product. Clean and remove damaged or otherwise inferior materials to prepare raw products for processing. Clean packaging containers, line and pad crates, or assemble cartons to prepare for product packing. Secure finished packaged items by hand tying, sewing, gluing, stapling, or attaching fastener. Clean, oil, and make minor adjustments or repairs to machinery and equipment, such as opening valves or setting guides.
51-9121| Coating, Painting, and Spraying Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Observe machine gauges and equipment operation to detect defects or deviations from standards, and make adjustments as necessary. Determine paint flow, viscosity, and coating quality by performing visual inspections, or by using viscometers. Weigh or measure chemicals, coatings, or paints before adding them to machines. Select appropriate coatings, paints, or sprays, or prepare them by mixing substances according to formulas, using automated paint mixing equipment. Set up and operate machines to paint or coat products with such materials as silver and copper solution, rubber, paint, glaze, oil, or rustproofing materials. Turn dials, handwheels, valves, or switches to regulate conveyor speeds, machine temperature, air pressure and circulation, and the flow or spray of coatings or paints. Start and stop operation of machines, using levers or buttons. Record operational data on specified forms. Start pumps to mix solutions and fill tanks. Operate auxiliary machines or equipment used in coating or painting processes. Fill hoppers, reservoirs, troughs, or pans with material used to coat, paint, or spray, using conveyors or pails. Perform test runs to ensure that equipment is set up properly. Clean machines, related equipment, and work areas, using water, solvents and other cleaning aids. Thread or feed items or products through or around machine rollers and dryers. Attach hoses or nozzles to machines, using wrenches and pliers, and make adjustments to obtain the proper dispersion of spray. Remove materials, parts, or workpieces from painting or coating machines, using hand tools. Transfer completed items or products from machines to drying or storage areas, using handcarts, handtrucks, or cranes. Attach and align machine parts such as rollers, guides, brushes, and blades, using hand tools. Examine, measure, weigh, or test sample products to ensure conformance to specifications. Hold or position spray guns to direct spray onto articles. Place items or products on feedracks, spindles, or reel strands to coat, paint, or spray them, using hands, hoists, or truck lifts. Prepare and apply stencils, computer-generated decals, or other decorative items to finished products. Paint small items and perform touch-up painting, using paint brushes.
51-9122| Painters, Transportation Equipment|Mix paints to match color specifications or vehicles' original colors, stirring or thinning paints, using spatulas or power mixing equipment. Select paint according to company requirements and match paint colors, following specified color charts. Dispose of hazardous waste in an appropriate manner. Remove grease, dirt, paint, or rust from vehicle surfaces in preparation for paint application, using abrasives, solvents, brushes, blowtorches, washing tanks, or sandblasters. Spray prepared surfaces with specified amounts of primers and decorative or finish coatings. Pour paint into spray guns and adjust nozzles and paint mixes for proper paint flow and coating thickness. Monitor painting operations to identify flaws, such as blisters or streaks, and correct their causes. Remove accessories, such as chrome or mirrors, from vehicles and mask other surfaces with tape or paper to protect them from paint. Disassemble, clean, and reassemble sprayers or power equipment, using solvents, wire brushes, and cloths. Select the correct spray gun system for the material being applied. Fill small dents or scratches with body fillers and smooth surfaces to prepare vehicles for painting. Apply rust-resistant undercoats and caulk and seal seams. Sand and apply sealer to properly dried vehicle finish. Sand vehicle surfaces between coats of paint or primer to remove flaws and enhance adhesion for subsequent coats. Buff and wax the finished paintwork. Clean equipment and work areas. Apply primer over any repairs made to vehicle surfaces. Adjust controls on infrared ovens, heat lamps, portable ventilators, or exhaust units to speed the drying of vehicles between coats. Allow the sprayed product to dry and touch up any missed spots. Operate lifting or moving devices to move equipment or materials to access areas to be painted. Set up portable equipment, such as ventilators, exhaust units, ladders, or scaffolding. Use brush to hand-paint areas in need of retouching or unreachable with a spray gun. Apply designs, lettering, or other identifying or decorative items to finished products, using paint brushes or paint sprayers. Lay out logos, symbols, or designs on painted surfaces, according to blueprint specifications, using measuring instruments, stencils, or patterns. Verify paint consistency, using a viscosity meter.
51-9123| Painting, Coating, and Decorating Workers|Apply coatings, such as paint, ink, or lacquer, to protect or decorate workpiece surfaces, using spray guns, pens, or brushes. Examine finished surfaces of workpieces to verify conformance to specifications and retouch any defective areas. Clean and maintain tools and equipment, using solvents, brushes, and rags. Read job orders and inspect workpieces to determine work procedures and materials required. Clean surfaces of workpieces in preparation for coating, using cleaning fluids, solvents, brushes, scrapers, steam, sandpaper, or cloth. Rinse, drain, or wipe coated workpieces to remove excess coating material or to facilitate setting of finish coats on workpieces. Place coated workpieces in ovens or dryers for specified times to dry or harden finishes. Select and mix ingredients to prepare coating substances according to specifications, using paddles or mechanical mixers. Melt or heat coating materials to specified temperatures. Conceal blemishes in workpieces, such as nicks and dents, using fillers such as putty.
51-9141| Semiconductor Processors|Manipulate valves, switches, and buttons, or key commands into control panels to start semiconductor processing cycles. Maintain processing, production, and inspection information and reports. Inspect materials, components, or products for surface defects and measure circuitry, using electronic test equipment, precision measuring instruments, microscope, and standard procedures. Clean semiconductor wafers using cleaning equipment, such as chemical baths, automatic wafer cleaners, or blow-off wands. Study work orders, instructions, formulas, and processing charts to determine specifications and sequence of operations. Load and unload equipment chambers and transport finished product to storage or to area for further processing. Clean and maintain equipment, including replacing etching and rinsing solutions and cleaning bath containers and work area. Place semiconductor wafers in processing containers or equipment holders, using vacuum wand or tweezers. Set, adjust, and readjust computerized or mechanical equipment controls to regulate power level, temperature, vacuum, and rotation speed of furnace, according to crystal growing specifications. Etch, lap, polish, or grind wafers or ingots to form circuitry and change conductive properties, using etching, lapping, polishing, or grinding equipment. Load semiconductor material into furnace. Monitor operation and adjust controls of processing machines and equipment to produce compositions with specific electronic properties, using computer terminals. Count, sort, and weigh processed items. Calculate etching time based on thickness of material to be removed from wafers or crystals. Inspect equipment for leaks, diagnose malfunctions, and request repairs. Align photo mask pattern on photoresist layer, expose pattern to ultraviolet light, and develop pattern, using specialized equipment. Stamp, etch, or scribe identifying information on finished component according to specifications. Operate saw to cut remelt into sections of specified size or to cut ingots into wafers. Scribe or separate wafers into dice. Connect reactor to computer, using hand tools and power tools. Mount crystal ingots or wafers on blocks or plastic laminate, using special mounting devices, to facilitate their positioning in the holding fixtures of sawing, drilling, grinding or sanding equipment. Attach ampoule to diffusion pump to remove air from ampoule, and seal ampoule, using blowtorch. Measure and weigh amounts of crystal growing materials, mix and grind materials, load materials into container, and monitor processing procedures to help identify crystal growing problems.
51-9151| Photographic Process Workers and Processing Machine Operators|Create prints according to customer specifications and laboratory protocols. Examine developed prints for defects, such as broken lines, spots, or blurs. Fill tanks of processing machines with solutions such as developer, dyes, stop-baths, fixers, bleaches, or washes. Immerse film, negatives, paper, or prints in developing solutions, fixing solutions, and water to complete photographic development processes. Insert processed negatives and prints into envelopes for delivery to customers. Load circuit boards, racks or rolls of film, negatives, or printing paper into processing or printing machines. Load digital images onto computers directly from cameras or from storage devices, such as flash memory cards or universal serial bus (USB) devices. Maintain records, such as quantities or types of processing completed, materials used, or customer charges. Measure and mix chemicals to prepare solutions for processing, according to formulas. Monitor equipment operation to detect malfunctions. Operate machines to prepare circuit boards and to expose, develop, etch, fix, wash, dry, or print film or plates. Operate scanners or related computer equipment to digitize negatives, photographic prints, or other images. Operate special equipment to perform tasks such as transferring film to videotape or producing photographic enlargements. Place sensitized paper in frames of projection printers, photostats, or other reproduction machines. Produce color or black-and-white photographs, negatives, or slides, applying standard photographic reproduction techniques and procedures. Read work orders to determine required processes, techniques, materials, or equipment. Reprint originals for enlargement or in sections to be pieced together. Retouch photographic negatives or original prints to correct defects. Review computer-processed digital images for quality. Select digital images for printing, specify number of images to be printed, and direct to printer, using computer software. Set automatic timers, lens openings, and printer carriages to specified focus and exposure times and start exposure to duplicate originals, photographs, or negatives. Set or adjust machine controls, according to specifications, type of operation, or material requirements. Apply paint, using airbrushes, pens, artists' brushes, cotton swabs, or gloved fingers to retouch or enhance negatives or photographs. Clean or maintain photoprocessing or darkroom equipment, using ultrasonic equipment or cleaning and rinsing solutions. Color photographs to produce natural, lifelike appearances, using oil colors and airbrushes. Dry prints or negatives using sponges, squeegees, mechanical air dryers, or drying cabinets. Examine drawings, negatives, or photographic prints to determine coloring, shading, accenting, or other changes required for retouching or restoration. Examine quality of film fades or dissolves for potential color corrections, using color analyzers. Expose filmstrips to progressively timed lights to compare effects of various exposure times. Ink borders or lettering on illustrations using pens, brushes, or drafting instruments. Mount original photographs, negatives, or other printed material in holders or vacuum frames beneath lights. Produce timed prints with separate densities or color settings for each scene of a production. Shade negatives or photographs with pencils to smooth facial contours, soften highlights, or conceal blemishes, stray hairs, or wrinkles. Splice broken or separated film and mount film on reels. Thread filmstrips through densitometers or sensitometers and expose film to light to determine density of film, necessary color corrections, or light sensitivity. Upload digital images onto Web sites for customers.
51-9191| Adhesive Bonding Machine Operators and Tenders|Align and position materials being joined to ensure accurate application of adhesive or heat sealing. Adjust machine components according to specifications such as widths, lengths, and thickness of materials and amounts of glue, cement, or adhesive required. Monitor machine operations to detect malfunctions and report or resolve problems. Start machines, and turn valves or move controls to feed, admit, apply, or transfer materials and adhesives, and to adjust temperature, pressure, and time settings. Fill machines with glue, cement, or adhesives. Perform test production runs and make adjustments as necessary to ensure that completed products meet standards and specifications. Examine and measure completed materials or products to verify conformance to specifications, using measuring devices such as tape measures, gauges, or calipers. Read work orders and communicate with coworkers to determine machine and equipment settings and adjustments and supply and product specifications. Remove and stack completed materials or products, and restock materials to be joined. Observe gauges, meters, and control panels to obtain information about equipment temperatures and pressures, or the speed of feeders or conveyors. Maintain production records such as quantities, dimensions, and thicknesses of materials processed. Remove jammed materials from machines and readjust components as necessary to resume normal operations. Mount or load material such as paper, plastic, wood, or rubber in feeding mechanisms of cementing or gluing machines. Transport materials, supplies, and finished products between storage and work areas, using forklifts. Clean and maintain gluing and cementing machines, using solutions, lubricants, brushes, and scrapers. Measure and mix ingredients to prepare glue.
51-9192| Cleaning, Washing, and Metal Pickling Equipment Operators and Tenders|Operate or tend machines to wash and remove impurities from items such as barrels or kegs, glass products, tin plate surfaces, dried fruit, pulp, animal stock, coal, manufactured articles, plastic, or rubber. Add specified amounts of chemicals to equipment at required times to maintain solution levels and concentrations. Drain, clean, and refill machines or tanks at designated intervals, using cleaning solutions or water. Measure, weigh, or mix cleaning solutions, using measuring tanks, calibrated rods or suction tubes. Draw samples for laboratory analysis, or test solutions for conformance to specifications, such as acidity or specific gravity. Observe machine operations, gauges, or thermometers, and adjust controls to maintain specified conditions. Set controls to regulate temperature and length of cycles, and start conveyors, pumps, agitators, and machines. Examine and inspect machines to detect malfunctions. Record gauge readings, materials used, processing times, or test results in production logs. Adjust, clean, and lubricate mechanical parts of machines, using hand tools and grease guns. Load machines with objects to be processed and unload them after cleaning, placing them on conveyors or racks.
51-9193| Cooling and Freezing Equipment Operators and Tenders|Adjust machine or freezer speed and air intake to obtain desired consistency and amount of product. Monitor pressure gauges, ammeters, flowmeters, thermometers, or products, and adjust controls to maintain specified conditions, such as feed rate, product consistency, temperature, air pressure, and machine speed. Record temperatures, amounts of materials processed, or test results on report forms. Read dials and gauges on panel control boards to ascertain temperatures, alkalinities, and densities of mixtures, and turn valves to obtain specified mixtures. Correct machinery malfunctions by performing actions such as removing jams, and inform supervisors of malfunctions as necessary. Start machinery, such as pumps, feeders, or conveyors, and turn valves to heat, admit, or transfer products, refrigerants, or mixes. Assemble equipment, and attach pipes, fittings, or valves, using hand tools. Scrape, dislodge, or break excess frost, ice, or frozen product from equipment to prevent accumulation, using hands and hand tools. Weigh packages and adjust freezer air valves or switches on filler heads to obtain specified amounts of product in each container. Stir material with spoons or paddles to mix ingredients or allow even cooling and prevent coagulation. Start agitators to blend contents, or start beater, scraper, and expeller blades to mix contents with air and prevent sticking. Measure or weigh specified amounts of ingredients or materials, and load them into tanks, vats, hoppers, or other equipment. Load and position wrapping paper, sticks, bags, or cartons into dispensing machines. Insert forming fixtures, and start machines that cut frozen products into measured portions or specified shapes. Place or position containers into equipment, and remove containers after completion of cooling or freezing processes. Inspect and flush lines with solutions or steam, and spray equipment with sterilizing solutions. Position molds on conveyors, and measure and adjust level of fill, using depth gauges. Sample and test product characteristics such as specific gravity, acidity, and sugar content, using hydrometers, pH meters, or refractometers. Activate mechanical rakes to regulate flow of ice from storage bins to vats.
51-9194| Etchers and Engravers|Adjust depths and sizes of cuts by adjusting heights of worktables, or by adjusting machine-arm gauges. Engrave and print patterns, designs, etchings, trademarks, or lettering onto flat or curved surfaces of a wide variety of metal, glass, plastic, or paper items, using hand tools or hand-held power tools. Position and clamp workpieces, plates, or rollers in holding fixtures. Determine machine settings, and move bars or levers to reproduce designs on rollers or plates. Examine engraving for quality of cut, burrs, rough spots, and irregular or incomplete engraving. Measure and compute dimensions of lettering, designs, or patterns to be engraved. Start machines and lower cutting tools to beginning points on patterns. Clean and polish engraved areas. Examine sketches, diagrams, samples, blueprints, or photographs to decide how designs are to be etched, cut, or engraved onto workpieces. Prepare etching chemicals according to formulas, diluting acid with water to obtain solutions of specified concentration. Observe actions of cutting tools through microscopes and adjust stylus movement to ensure accurate reproduction. Reduce artwork to be used, using reduction cameras. Sandblast exposed areas of glass to cut designs in surfaces, using spray guns. Set reduction scales to attain specified sizes of reproduction on workpieces, and set pantograph controls for required heights, depths, and widths of cuts. Neutralize workpieces to remove acid, wax, or enamel, using water, solvents, brushes, or specialized machines. Inspect etched work for depth of etching, uniformity, and defects, using calibrated microscopes, gauges, fingers, or magnifying lenses. Prepare workpieces for etching or engraving by cutting, sanding, cleaning, polishing, or treating them with wax, acid resist, lime, etching powder, or light-sensitive enamel. Insert cutting tools or bits into machines and secure them with wrenches. Print proofs or examine designs to verify accuracy of engraving, and rework engraving as required. Transfer image to workpiece, using contact printer, pantograph stylus, silkscreen printing device, or stamp pad. Sketch, trace, or scribe layout lines and designs on workpieces, plates, dies, or rollers, using compasses, scribers, gravers, or pencils. Guide stylus over template, causing cutting tool to duplicate design or letters on workpiece. Remove completed workpieces and place them in trays. Carve designs and letters onto metal for transfer to other surfaces. Select and insert required templates into pattern frames beneath the stylus of a machine cutting tool or router. Cut outlines of impressions with gravers, and remove excess material with knives. Fill etched characters with opaque paste to improve readability. Brush or wipe acid over engraving to darken or highlight inscriptions.
51-9195| Molders, Shapers, and Casters, Except Metal and Plastic|Verify depths and dimensions of cuts or carvings to ensure adherence to specifications, blueprints, or models, using measuring instruments. Move fingers over surfaces of carvings to ensure smoothness of finish. Shape, trim, or touch up roughed-out designs with appropriate tools to finish carvings. Lay out designs or dimensions from sketches or blueprints on stone surfaces, by freehand or by transferring them from tracing paper, using scribes or chalk and measuring instruments. Cut, shape, and finish rough blocks of building or monumental stone, according to diagrams or patterns. Drill holes and cut or carve moldings and grooves in stone, according to diagrams and patterns. Select chisels, pneumatic or surfacing tools, or sandblasting nozzles and determine sequence of use. Study artistic objects or graphic materials, such as models, sketches, or blueprints, to plan carving or cutting techniques. Carve designs or figures in full or bas relief on stone, employing knowledge of stone carving techniques and sense of artistry to produce carvings consistent with designers' plans. Carve rough designs freehand or by chipping along marks on stone, using mallets and chisels or pneumatic tools. Guide nozzles over stone, following stencil outlines, or chip along marks to create designs or to work surfaces down to specified finishes. Smooth surfaces of carvings, using rubbing stones. Load sandblasting equipment with abrasives, attach nozzles to hoses, and turn valves to admit compressed air and activate jets. Dress stone surfaces, using bushhammers. Remove or add stencils during blasting to create differing cut depths, intricate designs, or rough, pitted finishes. Copy drawings on rough clay or plaster models.Heat glass to pliable stage, using gas flames or ovens and rotating glass to heat it uniformly. Inspect, weigh, and measure products to verify conformance to specifications, using instruments such as micrometers, calipers, magnifiers, or rulers. Record manufacturing information, such as quantities, sizes, or types of goods produced. Place glass into dies or molds of presses and control presses to form products, such as glassware components or optical blanks. Spray or swab molds with oil solutions to prevent adhesion of glass. Blow tubing into specified shapes to prevent glass from collapsing, using compressed air or own breath, or blow and rotate gathers in molds or on boards to obtain final shapes. Operate electric kilns that heat and mold glass sheets to the shape and curve of metal jigs. Determine types and quantities of glass required to fabricate products. Set up and adjust machine press stroke lengths and pressures and regulate oven temperatures, according to glass types to be processed. Shape, bend, or join sections of glass, using paddles, pressing and flattening hand tools, or cork. Design and create glass objects, using blowpipes and artisans' hand tools and equipment. Place electrodes in tube ends and heat them with glass burners to fuse them into place. Operate and maintain finishing machines to grind, drill, sand, bevel, decorate, wash, or polish glass or glass products. Repair broken scrolls by replacing them with new sections of tubing. Develop sketches of glass products into blueprint specifications, applying knowledge of glass technology and glass blowing. Superimpose bent tubing on asbestos patterns to ensure accuracy. Cut lengths of tubing to specified sizes, using files or cutting wheels. Strike necks of finished articles to separate articles from blowpipes. Place rubber hoses on ends of tubing and charge tubing with gas.Press thumbs into centers of revolving clay to form hollows, and press on the inside and outside of emerging clay cylinders with hands and fingers, gradually raising and shaping clay to desired forms and sizes. Adjust wheel speeds according to the feel of the clay as pieces enlarge and walls become thinner. Mix and apply glazes, and load glazed pieces into kilns for firing. Position balls of clay in centers of potters' wheels, and start motors or pump treadles with feet to revolve wheels. Raise and shape clay into wares such as vases and pitchers, on revolving wheels, using hands, fingers, and thumbs. Prepare work for sale or exhibition, and maintain relationships with retail, pottery, art, and resource networks that can facilitate sale or exhibition of work. Smooth surfaces of finished pieces, using rubber scrapers and wet sponges. Design clay forms and molds, and decorations for forms. Move pieces from wheels so that they can dry. Pull wires through bases of articles and wheels to separate finished pieces. Examine finished ware for defects and measure dimensions, using rule and thickness gauge. Perform test-fires of pottery to determine how to achieve specific colors and textures. Maintain supplies of tools, equipment, and materials, and order additional supplies as needed. Verify accuracy of shapes and sizes of objects, using calipers and templates. Operate drying chambers to dry or finish molded ceramic ware. Start machine units and conveyors and observe lights and gauges on panel board to verify operational efficiency. Adjust pressures, temperatures, and trimming tool settings as required. Operate pug mills to blend and extrude clay. Operate jigger machines to form ceramic ware, such as bowls, cups, plates, and saucers.Read work orders or examine parts to determine parts or sections of products to be produced. Trim or remove excess material, using scrapers, knives, or band saws. Pour, pack, spread, or press plaster, concrete, liquid plastic, or other materials into or around models or molds. Engrave or stamp identifying symbols, letters, or numbers on products. Brush or spray mold surfaces with parting agents or insert paper into molds to ensure smoothness and prevent sticking or seepage. Assemble, insert, and adjust wires, tubes, cores, fittings, rods, or patterns into molds, using hand tools and depth gauges. Clean, finish, and lubricate molds and mold parts. Separate models or patterns from molds and examine products for accuracy. Set the proper operating temperature for each casting. Load or stack filled molds in ovens, dryers, or curing boxes, or on storage racks or carts. Align and assemble parts to produce completed products, using gauges and hand tools. Operate and adjust controls of heating equipment to melt material or to cure, dry, or bake filled molds. Select sizes and types of molds according to instructions. Withdraw cores or other loose mold members after castings solidify. Patch broken edges or fractures, using clay or plaster. Repair mold defects, such as cracks or broken edges, using patterns, mold boxes, or hand tools. Measure and cut products to specified dimensions, using measuring and cutting instruments. Smooth surfaces of molds, using scraping tools or sandpaper. Measure ingredients and mix molding, casting material, or sealing compounds to prescribed consistencies, according to formulas. Remove excess materials and level and smooth wet mold mixtures. Operate molding machines that compact sand in flasks to form molds. Place forms around models and separately immerse each half portion of a model in plaster, wax, or other mold-making materials. Verify dimensions of products, using measuring instruments, such as calipers, vernier gauges, or protractors. Construct or form molds for use in casting metal, clay, or plaster objects, using plaster, fiberglass, rubber, casting machines, patterns, or flasks. Bore holes or cut grates, risers, or pouring spouts in molds, using power tools. Locate and scribe parting lines on patterns, using measuring instruments, such as calipers, squares, or depth gauges. Tap or tilt molds to ensure uniform distribution of materials.
51-9196| Paper Goods Machine Setters, Operators, and Tenders|Examine completed work to detect defects and verify conformance to work orders, and adjust machinery as necessary to correct production problems. Start machines and move controls to regulate tension on pressure rolls, to synchronize speed of machine components, and to adjust temperatures of glue or paraffin. Adjust guide assemblies, forming bars, and folding mechanisms according to specifications, using hand tools. Install attachments to machines for gluing, folding, printing, or cutting. Measure, space, and set saw blades, cutters, and perforators, according to product specifications. Observe operation of various machines to detect and correct machine malfunctions such as improper forming, glue flow, or pasteboard tension. Stamp products with information such as dates, using hand stamps or automatic stamping devices. Place rolls of paper or cardboard on machine feed tracks, and thread paper through gluing, coating, and slitting rollers. Fill glue and paraffin reservoirs, and position rollers to dispense glue onto paperboard. Cut products to specified dimensions, using hand or power cutters. Monitor finished cartons as they drop from forming machines into rotating hoppers and into gravity feed chutes to prevent jamming. Disassemble machines to maintain, repair, or replace broken or worn parts, using hand or power tools. Remove finished cores, and stack or place them on conveyors for transfer to other work areas. Lift tote boxes of finished cartons, and dump cartons into feed hoppers.
51-9197| Tire Builders|Depress pedals to rotate drums, and wind specified numbers of plies around drums to form tire bodies. Start rollers that bond tread and plies as drums revolve. Activate bead setters that press prefabricated beads onto plies. Inspect worn tires for faults, cracks, cuts and nail holes, and to determine if tires are suitable for retreading. Cut plies at splice points, and press ends together to form continuous bands. Align treads with guides, start drums to wind treads onto plies, and slice ends. Position rollers that turn ply edges under and over beads, or use steel rods to turn ply edges. Position ply stitcher rollers and drums according to width of stock, using hand tools and gauges. Build semi-raw rubber treads onto buffed tire casings to prepare tires for vulcanization in recapping or retreading processes. Pull plies from supply racks, and align plies with edges of drums. Roll camelbacks onto casings by hand, and cut camelbacks, using knives. Clean and paint completed tires. Fit inner tubes and final layers of rubber onto tires. Rub cement sticks on drum edges to provide adhesive surfaces for plies. Fill cuts and holes in tires, using hot rubber. Brush or spray solvents onto plies to ensure adhesion, and repeat process as specified, alternating direction of each ply to strengthen tires. Roll hand rollers over rebuilt casings, exerting pressure to ensure adhesion between camelbacks and casings. Measure tires to determine mold size requirements. Depress pedals to collapse drums after processing is complete. Trim excess rubber and imperfections during retreading processes. Place tires into molds for new tread.
51-9198| Helpers--Production Workers|Load and unload items from machines, conveyors, and conveyances. Operate machinery used in the production process, or assist machine operators. Place products in equipment or on work surfaces for further processing, inspecting, or wrapping. Examine products to verify conformance to quality standards. Start machines or equipment to begin production processes. Observe equipment operations so that malfunctions can be detected, and notify operators of any malfunctions. Remove products, machine attachments, or waste material from machines. Lift raw materials, finished products, and packed items, manually or using hoists. Transfer finished products, raw materials, tools, or equipment between storage and work areas of plants and warehouses, by hand or using hand trucks or powered lift trucks. Pack and store materials and products. Help production workers by performing duties of lesser skill, such as supplying or holding materials or tools, or cleaning work areas and equipment. Count finished products to determine if product orders are complete. Measure amounts of products, lengths of extruded articles, or weights of filled containers to ensure conformance to specifications. Separate products according to weight, grade, size, or composition of materials used to produce them. Turn valves to regulate flow of liquids or air, to reverse machines, to start pumps, or to regulate equipment. Mark or tag identification on parts. Dump materials such as prepared ingredients into machine hoppers prior to mixing. Mix ingredients according to specified procedures or formulas. Tie products in bundles for further processing or shipment, following prescribed procedures. Record information, such as the number of products tested, meter readings, or dates and times of product production. Read gauges or charts, and record data obtained. Unclamp and hoist full reels from braiding, winding, or other fabricating machines, using power hoists. Signal coworkers to direct them to move products during the production process. Clean and lubricate equipment. Prepare raw materials for processing. Perform minor repairs to machines, such as replacing damaged or worn parts. Change machine gears, using wrenches. Attach slings, ropes, or cables to objects such as pipes, hoses, or bundles. Position spouts or chutes of storage bins so that containers can be filled. Wash work areas, machines, equipment, vehicles, or products. Fold products and product parts during processing. Break up defective products for reprocessing. Thread ends of items such as thread, cloth, and lace through needles and rollers, and around take-up tubes. Cut or break flashing from materials or products.
53-1011| Aircraft Cargo Handling Supervisors|Distribute cargo in such a manner that space use is maximized. Calculate load weights for different aircraft compartments, using charts and computers. Direct ground crews in the loading, unloading, securing, or staging of aircraft cargo or baggage. Determine the quantity and orientation of cargo and compute an aircraft's center of gravity. Accompany aircraft as a member of the flight crew to monitor and handle cargo in flight.
53-1021| First-Line Supervisors of Helpers, Laborers, and Material Movers, Hand|Maintain a safe working environment by monitoring safety procedures and equipment. Review work throughout the work process and at completion to ensure that it has been performed properly. Inform designated employees or departments of items loaded or problems encountered. Examine freight to determine loading sequences. Collaborate with workers and managers to solve work-related problems. Check specifications of materials loaded or unloaded against information contained in work orders. Plan work schedules and assign duties to maintain adequate staff for effective performance of activities and response to fluctuating workloads. Transmit and explain work orders to laborers. Prepare and maintain work records and reports of information such as employee time and wages, daily receipts, or inspection results. Inspect equipment for wear and for conformance to specifications. Estimate material, time, and staffing requirements for a given project, based on work orders, job specifications, and experience. Conduct staff meetings to relay general information or to address specific topics, such as safety. Evaluate employee performance and prepare performance appraisals. Assess training needs of staff and arrange for or provide appropriate instruction. Resolve personnel problems, complaints, or formal grievances when possible, or refer them to higher-level supervisors for resolution. Recommend or initiate personnel actions, such as promotions, transfers, or disciplinary measures. Participate in the hiring process by reviewing credentials, conducting interviews, or making hiring decisions or recommendations. Inspect job sites to determine the extent of maintenance or repairs needed. Perform the same work duties as those supervised or perform more difficult or skilled tasks or assist in their performance. Inventory supplies and requisition or purchase additional items, as necessary. Counsel employees in work-related activities, personal growth, or career development. Schedule times of shipment and modes of transportation for materials. Quote prices to customers. Provide assistance in balancing books, tracking, monitoring, or projecting a unit's budget needs and in developing unit policies and procedures.
53-1031| First-Line Supervisors of Transportation and Material-Moving Machine and Vehicle Operators|Enforce safety rules and regulations. Plan work assignments and equipment allocations to meet transportation, operations or production goals. Direct workers in transportation or related services, such as pumping, moving, storing, or loading or unloading of materials or people. Review orders, production schedules, blueprints, or shipping or receiving notices to determine work sequences and material shipping dates, types, volumes, or destinations. Inspect or test materials, stock, vehicles, equipment, or facilities to ensure that they are safe, free of defects, and consistent with specifications. Confer with customers, supervisors, contractors, or other personnel to exchange information or to resolve problems. Monitor field work to ensure proper performance and use of materials. Dispatch personnel and vehicles in response to telephone or radio reports of emergencies. Drive vehicles or operate machines or equipment to complete work assignments or to assist workers. Plan and establish transportation routes. Maintain or verify records of time, materials, expenditures, or crew activities. Interpret transportation or tariff regulations, shipping orders, safety regulations, or company policies and procedures for workers. Prepare, compile, and submit reports on work activities, operations, production, or work-related accidents. Resolve worker problems or collaborate with employees to assist in problem resolution. Recommend or implement personnel actions, such as employee selection, evaluation, rewards, or disciplinary actions. Perform or schedule repairs or preventive maintenance of vehicles or other equipment. Explain and demonstrate work tasks to new workers or assign training tasks to experienced workers. Requisition needed personnel, supplies, equipment, parts, or repair services. Recommend and implement measures to improve worker motivation, equipment performance, work methods, or customer services. Examine, measure, or weigh cargo or materials to determine specific handling requirements. Assist workers in tasks such as coupling railroad cars or loading vehicles. Compute or estimate cash, payroll, transportation, personnel, or storage requirements.
53-2011| Airline Pilots, Copilots, and Flight Engineers|Work as part of a flight team with other crew members, especially during takeoffs and landings. Use instrumentation to guide flights when visibility is poor. Start engines, operate controls, and pilot airplanes to transport passengers, mail, or freight, adhering to flight plans, regulations, and procedures. Contact control towers for takeoff clearances, arrival instructions, and other information, using radio equipment. Monitor gauges, warning devices, and control panels to verify aircraft performance and to regulate engine speed. Respond to and report in-flight emergencies and malfunctions. Steer aircraft along planned routes, using autopilot and flight management computers. Check passenger and cargo distributions and fuel amounts to ensure that weight and balance specifications are met. Monitor engine operation, fuel consumption, and functioning of aircraft systems during flights. Inspect aircraft for defects and malfunctions, according to pre-flight checklists. Choose routes, altitudes, and speeds that will provide the fastest, safest, and smoothest flights. Confer with flight dispatchers and weather forecasters to keep abreast of flight conditions. Direct activities of aircraft crews during flights. Brief crews about flight details, such as destinations, duties, and responsibilities. Order changes in fuel supplies, loads, routes, or schedules to ensure safety of flights. Record in log books information such as flight times, distances flown, and fuel consumption. Make announcements regarding flights, using public address systems. Perform minor maintenance work, or arrange for major maintenance. Test and evaluate the performance of new aircraft. Coordinate flight activities with ground crews and air traffic control and inform crew members of flight and test procedures. File instrument flight plans with air traffic control to ensure that flights are coordinated with other air traffic. Conduct in-flight tests and evaluations at specified altitudes and in all types of weather to determine the receptivity and other characteristics of equipment and systems. Instruct other pilots and student pilots in aircraft operations and the principles of flight. Plan and formulate flight activities and test schedules and prepare flight evaluation reports. Load smaller aircraft, handling passenger luggage and supervising refueling. Evaluate other pilots or pilot-license applicants for proficiency.
53-2012| Commercial Pilots|Use instrumentation to pilot aircraft when visibility is poor. Start engines, operate controls, and pilot airplanes to transport passengers, mail, or freight according to flight plans, regulations, and procedures. Monitor engine operation, fuel consumption, and functioning of aircraft systems during flights. Check aircraft prior to flights to ensure that the engines, controls, instruments, and other systems are functioning properly. Consider airport altitudes, outside temperatures, plane weights, and wind speeds and directions to calculate the speed needed to become airborne. Contact control towers for takeoff clearances, arrival instructions, and other information, using radio equipment. Obtain and review data such as load weights, fuel supplies, weather conditions, and flight schedules to determine flight plans and identify needed changes. File instrument flight plans with air traffic control so that flights can be coordinated with other air traffic. Check baggage or cargo to ensure that it has been loaded correctly. Order changes in fuel supplies, loads, routes, or schedules to ensure safety of flights. Plan flights according to government and company regulations, using aeronautical charts and navigation instruments. Choose routes, altitudes, and speeds that will provide the fastest, safest, and smoothest flights. Co-pilot aircraft or perform captain's duties as required. Coordinate flight activities with ground crews and air traffic control, and inform crew members of flight and test procedures. Request changes in altitudes or routes as circumstances dictate. Write specified information in flight records, such as flight times, altitudes flown, and fuel consumption. Supervise other crew members. Fly with other pilots or pilot-license applicants to evaluate their proficiency. Rescue and evacuate injured persons. Instruct other pilots and student pilots in aircraft operations. Teach company regulations and procedures to other pilots. Perform minor aircraft maintenance and repair work, or arrange for major maintenance. Conduct in-flight tests and evaluations at specified altitudes and in all types of weather to determine the receptivity and other characteristics of equipment and systems. Plan and formulate flight activities and test schedules and prepare flight evaluation reports. Pilot airplanes or helicopters over farmlands at low altitudes to dust or spray fields with fertilizers, fungicides, or pesticides. Check the flight performance of new and experimental planes.
53-2021| Air Traffic Controllers|Inform pilots about nearby planes or potentially hazardous conditions, such as weather, speed and direction of wind, or visibility problems. Issue landing and take-off authorizations or instructions. Transfer control of departing flights to traffic control centers and accept control of arriving flights. Provide flight path changes or directions to emergency landing fields for pilots traveling in bad weather or in emergency situations. Alert airport emergency services in cases of emergency or when aircraft are experiencing difficulties. Monitor or direct the movement of aircraft within an assigned air space or on the ground at airports to minimize delays and maximize safety. Direct pilots to runways when space is available or direct them to maintain a traffic pattern until there is space for them to land. Monitor aircraft within a specific airspace, using radar, computer equipment, or visual references. Direct ground traffic, including taxiing aircraft, maintenance or baggage vehicles, or airport workers. Contact pilots by radio to provide meteorological, navigational, or other information. Maintain radio or telephone contact with adjacent control towers, terminal control units, or other area control centers to coordinate aircraft movement. Determine the timing or procedures for flight vector changes. Initiate or coordinate searches for missing aircraft. Provide on-the-job training to new air traffic controllers. Check conditions and traffic at different altitudes in response to pilots' requests for altitude changes. Relay air traffic information, such as courses, altitudes, or expected arrival times, to control centers. Inspect, adjust, or control radio equipment or airport lights. Compile information about flights from flight plans, pilot reports, radar, or observations. Organize flight plans or traffic management plans to prepare for planes about to enter assigned airspace. Review records or reports for clarity and completeness and maintain records or reports as required under federal law. Complete daily activity reports and keep records of messages from aircraft. Conduct pre-flight briefings on weather conditions, suggested routes, altitudes, indications of turbulence, or other flight safety information. Analyze factors such as weather reports, fuel requirements, or maps to determine air routes.
53-2022| Airfield Operations Specialists|Implement airfield safety procedures to ensure a safe operating environment for personnel and aircraft operation. Assist in responding to aircraft and medical emergencies. Manage wildlife on and around airport grounds. Coordinate with agencies such as air traffic control, civil engineers, and command posts to ensure support of airfield management activities. Plan and coordinate airfield construction. Perform and supervise airfield management activities, including mobile airfield management functions. Coordinate communications between air traffic control and maintenance personnel. Train operations staff. Monitor the arrival, parking, refueling, loading, and departure of all aircraft. Provide aircrews with information and services needed for airfield management and flight planning. Maintain air-to-ground and point-to-point radio contact with aircraft commanders. Maintain flight and events logs, air crew flying records, and flight operations records of incoming and outgoing flights. Use airfield landing and navigational aids and digital data terminal communications equipment to perform duties. Coordinate changes to flight itineraries with appropriate Air Traffic Control (ATC) agencies. Anticipate aircraft equipment needs for air evacuation and cargo flights. Procure, produce, and provide information on the safe operation of aircraft, such as flight planning publications, operations publications, charts and maps, and weather information. Relay departure, arrival, delay, aircraft and airfield status, and other pertinent information to upline controlling agencies. Receive and post weather information and flight plan data, such as air routes and arrival and departure times. Receive, transmit, and control message traffic. Collaborate with others to plan flight schedules and air crew assignments. Conduct departure and arrival briefings. Post visual display boards and status boards. Coordinate with agencies to meet aircrew requirements for billeting, messing, refueling, ground transportation, and transient aircraft maintenance. Check military flight plans with civilian agencies.
53-2031| Flight Attendants|Verify that first aid kits and other emergency equipment, including fire extinguishers and oxygen bottles, are in working order. Direct and assist passengers in emergency procedures, such as evacuating a plane following an emergency landing. Administer first aid to passengers in distress. Announce and demonstrate safety and emergency procedures, such as the use of oxygen masks, seat belts, and life jackets. Walk aisles of planes to verify that passengers have complied with federal regulations prior to takeoffs and landings. Prepare passengers and aircraft for landing, following procedures. Attend preflight briefings concerning weather, altitudes, routes, emergency procedures, crew coordination, lengths of flights, food and beverage services offered, and numbers of passengers. Check to ensure that food, beverages, blankets, reading material, emergency equipment, and other supplies are aboard and are in adequate supply. Determine special assistance needs of passengers such as small children, the elderly, or disabled persons. Announce flight delays and descent preparations. Reassure passengers when situations such as turbulence are encountered. Greet passengers boarding aircraft and direct them to assigned seats. Inspect passenger tickets to verify information and to obtain destination information. Assist passengers entering or disembarking the aircraft. Operate audio and video systems. Answer passengers' questions about flights, aircraft, weather, travel routes and services, arrival times, or schedules. Take inventory of headsets, alcoholic beverages, and money collected. Prepare reports showing places of departure and destination, passenger ticket numbers, meal and beverage inventories, the conditions of cabin equipment, and any problems encountered by passengers. Inspect and clean cabins, checking for any problems and making sure that cabins are in order. Conduct periodic trips through the cabin to ensure passenger comfort and to distribute reading material, headphones, pillows, playing cards, and blankets. Assist passengers in placing carry-on luggage in overhead, garment, or under-seat storage. Collect money for meals and beverages.
53-3011| Ambulance Drivers and Attendants, Except Emergency Medical Technicians|Drive ambulances or assist ambulance drivers in transporting sick, injured, or convalescent persons. Remove and replace soiled linens or equipment to maintain sanitary conditions. Place patients on stretchers and load stretchers into ambulances, usually with assistance from other attendants. Accompany and assist emergency medical technicians on calls. Earn and maintain appropriate certifications. Replace supplies and disposable items on ambulances. Report facts concerning accidents or emergencies to hospital personnel or law enforcement officials. Administer first aid, such as bandaging, splinting, or administering oxygen.
53-3021| Bus Drivers, Transit and Intercity|Drive vehicles over specified routes or to specified destinations according to time schedules, complying with traffic regulations to ensure that passengers have a smooth and safe ride. Park vehicles at loading areas so that passengers can board. Advise passengers to be seated and orderly while on vehicles. Inspect vehicles and check gas, oil, and water levels prior to departure. Assist passengers, such as elderly or disabled individuals, on and off bus, ensure they are seated properly, help carry baggage, and answer questions about bus schedules or routes. Handle passenger emergencies or disruptions. Record information, such as cash receipts and ticket fares, and maintain log book. Collect tickets or cash fares from passengers. Regulate heating, lighting, and ventilating systems for passenger comfort. Report delays or accidents. Maintain cleanliness of bus or motor coach. Load and unload baggage in baggage compartments. Make minor repairs to vehicle and change tires.
53-3022| Bus Drivers, School or Special Client|Follow safety rules as students board and exit buses or cross streets near bus stops. Comply with traffic regulations to operate vehicles in a safe and courteous manner. Maintain order among pupils during trips to ensure safety. Check the condition of a vehicle's tires, brakes, windshield wipers, lights, oil, fuel, water, and safety equipment to ensure that everything is in working order. Escort small children across roads and highways. Report any bus malfunctions or needed repairs. Pick up and drop off students at regularly scheduled neighborhood locations, following strict time schedules. Maintain knowledge of first-aid procedures. Prepare and submit reports that may include the number of passengers or trips, hours worked, mileage, fuel consumption, or fares received. Read maps and follow written and verbal geographic directions. Drive gasoline, diesel, or electrically powered multi-passenger vehicles to transport students between neighborhoods, schools, and school activities. Regulate heating, lighting, and ventilation systems for passenger comfort. Keep bus interiors clean for passengers. Report delays, accidents, or other traffic and transportation situations, using telephones or mobile two-way radios. Make minor repairs to vehicles.
53-3031| Driver/Sales Workers|Collect money from customers, make change, and record transactions on customer receipts. Drive trucks to deliver such items as food, medical supplies, or newspapers. Write customer orders and sales contracts according to company guidelines. Inform regular customers of new products or services and price changes. Listen to and resolve customers' complaints regarding products or services. Record sales or delivery information on daily sales or delivery record. Call on prospective customers to explain company services or to solicit new business. Arrange merchandise and sales promotion displays or issue sales promotion materials to customers. Maintain trucks and food-dispensing equipment and clean inside of machines that dispense food or beverages. Review lists of dealers, customers, or station drops and load trucks. Sell food specialties, such as sandwiches and beverages, to office workers and patrons of sports events.
53-3032| Heavy and Tractor-Trailer Truck Drivers|Check vehicles to ensure that mechanical, safety, and emergency equipment is in good working order. Follow appropriate safety procedures for transporting dangerous goods. Inspect loads to ensure that cargo is secure. Maintain logs of working hours or of vehicle service or repair status, following applicable state and federal regulations. Secure cargo for transport, using ropes, blocks, chain, binders, or covers. Maneuver trucks into loading or unloading positions, following signals from loading crew and checking that vehicle and loading equipment are properly positioned. Report vehicle defects, accidents, traffic violations, or damage to the vehicles. Obtain receipts or signatures for delivered goods and collect payment for services when required. Drive trucks with capacities greater than 3 tons, including tractor-trailer combinations, to transport and deliver products, livestock, or other materials. Check all load-related documentation for completeness and accuracy. Read bills of lading to determine assignment details. Collect delivery instructions from appropriate sources, verifying instructions and routes. Drive trucks to weigh stations before and after loading and along routes in compliance with state regulations. Couple or uncouple trailers by changing trailer jack positions, connecting or disconnecting air or electrical lines, or manipulating fifth-wheel locks. Check conditions of trailers after contents have been unloaded to ensure that there has been no damage. Perform basic vehicle maintenance tasks, such as adding oil, fuel, or radiator fluid or performing minor repairs. Crank trailer landing gear up or down to safely secure vehicles. Read and interpret maps to determine vehicle routes. Operate equipment, such as truck cab computers, CB radios, phones, or global positioning systems (GPS) equipment to exchange necessary information with bases, supervisors, or other drivers. Plan or adjust routes based on changing conditions, using computer equipment, global positioning systems (GPS) equipment, or other navigation devices to minimize fuel consumption and carbon emissions. Load or unload trucks or help others with loading or unloading, using special loading-related equipment or other equipment as necessary. Remove debris from loaded trailers. Follow special cargo-related procedures, such as checking refrigeration systems for frozen foods or providing food or water for livestock. Inventory and inspect goods to be moved to determine quantities and conditions. Wrap and secure goods using pads, packing paper, containers, or straps. Install or remove special equipment, such as tire chains, grader blades, plow blades, or sanders. Operate idle reduction systems or auxiliary power systems to generate power from alternative sources, such as fuel cells, to reduce idling time, to heat or cool truck cabins, or to provide power for other equipment. Perform emergency roadside repairs, such as changing tires or installing light bulbs, tire chains, or spark plugs. Give directions to laborers who are packing goods and moving them onto trailers. Drive electric or hybrid-electric powered trucks or alternative fuel-powered trucks to transport and deliver products, livestock, or other materials. Operate trucks equipped with snowplows or sander attachments to maintain roads in winter weather.
53-3033| Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers|Obey traffic laws and follow established traffic and transportation procedures. Turn in receipts and money received from deliveries. Read maps and follow written or verbal geographic directions. Verify the contents of inventory loads against shipping papers. Load and unload trucks, vans, or automobiles. Drive vehicles with capacities under three tons to transport materials to and from specified destinations, such as railroad stations, plants, residences, offices, or within industrial yards. Maintain records, such as vehicle logs, records of cargo, or billing statements, in accordance with regulations. Inspect and maintain vehicle supplies and equipment, such as gas, oil, water, tires, lights, or brakes, to ensure that vehicles are in proper working condition. Present bills and receipts and collect payments for goods delivered or loaded. Report any mechanical problems encountered with vehicles. Perform emergency repairs, such as changing tires or installing light bulbs, fuses, tire chains, or spark plugs. Report delays, accidents, or other traffic and transportation situations to bases or other vehicles, using telephones or mobile two-way radios. Sell products from truck inventory and keep records of sales. Use and maintain the tools or equipment found on commercial vehicles, such as weighing or measuring devices.
53-3041| Taxi Drivers and Chauffeurs|Follow relevant safety regulations and state laws governing vehicle operation and ensure that passengers follow safety regulations. Test vehicle equipment, such as lights, brakes, horns, or windshield wipers, to ensure proper operation. Arrange to pick up particular customers or groups on a regular schedule. Provide passengers with assistance entering and exiting vehicles and help them with any luggage. Notify dispatchers or company mechanics of vehicle problems. Complete accident reports when necessary. Communicate with dispatchers by radio, telephone, or computer to exchange information and receive requests for passenger service. Drive taxicabs, limousines, company cars, or privately owned vehicles to transport passengers. Perform routine vehicle maintenance, such as regulating tire pressure and adding gasoline, oil, and water. Pick up passengers at prearranged locations, at taxi stands, or by cruising streets in high traffic areas. Record name, date, and taxi identification information on trip sheets, along with trip information, such as time and place of pickup and drop-off, and total fee. Perform minor vehicle repairs, such as cleaning spark plugs, or take vehicles to mechanics for servicing. Vacuum and clean interiors and wash and polish exteriors of automobiles. Pick up or meet employers according to requests, appointments, or schedules. Perform errands for customers or employers, such as delivering or picking up mail and packages. Determine fares based on trip distances and times, using taximeters and fee schedules, and announce fares to passengers. Operate vehicles with specialized equipment, such as wheelchair lifts, to transport and secure passengers with special needs. Turn the taximeter on when passengers enter the cab and turn it off when they reach the final destination. Collect fares or vouchers from passengers and make change or issue receipts as necessary. Provide passengers with information about the local area and points of interest or give advice on hotels and restaurants. Report to taxicab services or garages to receive vehicle assignments.
53-4011| Locomotive Engineers|Interpret train orders, signals, or railroad rules and regulations that govern the operation of locomotives. Confer with conductors or traffic control center personnel via radiophones to issue or receive information concerning stops, delays, or oncoming trains. Receive starting signals from conductors and use controls such as throttles or air brakes to drive electric, diesel-electric, steam, or gas turbine-electric locomotives. Monitor gauges or meters that measure speed, amperage, battery charge, or air pressure in brakelines or in main reservoirs. Observe tracks to detect obstructions. Call out train signals to assistants to verify meanings. Operate locomotives to transport freight or passengers between stations or to assemble or disassemble trains within rail yards. Check to ensure that brake examination tests are conducted at shunting stations. Respond to emergency conditions or breakdowns, following applicable safety procedures and rules. Inspect locomotives to verify adequate fuel, sand, water, or other supplies before each run or to check for mechanical problems. Inspect locomotives after runs to detect damaged or defective equipment. Prepare reports regarding any problems encountered, such as accidents, signaling problems, unscheduled stops, or delays. Check to ensure that documentation, such as procedure manuals or logbooks, are in the driver's cab and available for staff use. Monitor train loading procedures to ensure that freight or rolling stock are loaded or unloaded without damage. Drive diesel-electric rail-detector cars to transport rail-flaw-detecting machines over tracks.
53-4012| Locomotive Firers|Observe train signals along routes and verify their meanings for engineers. Monitor trains as they go around curves to detect dragging equipment and smoking journal boxes. Receive signals from workers in rear of train and relay that information to engineers. Observe tracks from left sides of locomotives to detect obstructions on tracks. Operate locomotives in emergency situations. Inspect locomotives to detect damaged or worn parts. Signal other workers to set brakes and to throw track switches when switching cars from trains to way stations. Check to see that trains are equipped with supplies such as fuel, water, and sand. Monitor oil, temperature, and pressure gauges on dashboards to determine if engines are operating safely and efficiently. Start diesel engines to warm engines before runs.
53-4013| Rail Yard Engineers, Dinkey Operators, and Hostlers|Confer with conductors and other workers via radiotelephones or computers to exchange switching information. Signal crew members for movement of engines or trains, using lanterns, hand signals, radios, or telephones. Observe and respond to wayside and cab signals, including color light signals, position signals, torpedoes, flags, and hot box detectors. Drive engines within railroad yards or other establishments to couple, uncouple, or switch railroad cars. Inspect engines before and after use to ensure proper operation. Apply and release hand brakes. Read switching instructions and daily car schedules to determine work to be performed, or receive orders from yard conductors. Inspect the condition of stationary trains, rolling stock, and equipment. Observe water levels and oil, air, and steam pressure gauges to ensure proper operation of equipment. Spot cars for loading and unloading at customer locations. Inspect track for defects such as broken rails and switch malfunctions. Ride on moving cars by holding onto grab irons and standing on ladder steps. Operate track switches, derails, automatic switches, and retarders to change routing of train or cars. Receive, relay, and act upon instructions and inquiries from train operations and customer service center personnel. Couple and uncouple air hoses and electrical connections between cars. Report arrival and departure times, train delays, work order completion, and time on duty. Pull knuckles to open them for coupling. Provide assistance in aligning drawbars, using available equipment to lift, pull, or push on the drawbars. Drive locomotives to and from various stations in roundhouses to have locomotives cleaned, serviced, repaired, or supplied. Record numbers of cars available, numbers of cars sent to repair stations, and types of service needed. Perform routine repair and maintenance duties. Operate and control dinkey engines to transport and shunt cars at industrial or mine sites. Operate flatcars equipped with derricks or railcars to transport personnel or equipment. Provide assistance in the installation or repair of rails and ties.
53-4021| Railroad Brake, Signal, and Switch Operators|Signal locomotive engineers to start or stop trains when coupling or uncoupling cars, using hand signals, lanterns, or radio communication. Pull or push track switches to reroute cars. Observe signals from other crew members so that work activities can be coordinated. Inspect couplings, air hoses, journal boxes, and handbrakes to ensure that they are securely fastened and functioning properly. Raise levers to couple and uncouple cars for makeup and breakup of trains. Receive oral or written instructions from yardmasters or yard conductors indicating track assignments and cars to be switched. Climb ladders to tops of cars to set brakes. Set flares, flags, lanterns, or torpedoes in front and at rear of trains during emergency stops to warn oncoming trains. Inspect tracks, cars, and engines for defects and to determine service needs, sending engines and cars for repairs as necessary. Make minor repairs to couplings, air hoses, and journal boxes, using hand tools. Connect air hoses to cars, using wrenches. Operate and drive locomotives, diesel switch engines, dinkey engines, flatcars, and railcars in train yards and at industrial sites. Refuel and lubricate engines. Watch for and relay traffic signals to start and stop cars during shunting. Monitor oil, air, and steam pressure gauges, and make sure water levels are adequate. Ride atop cars that have been shunted, and turn handwheels to control speeds or stop cars at specified positions. Adjust controls to regulate air-conditioning, heating, and lighting on trains for comfort of passengers. Record numbers of cars available, numbers of cars sent to repair stations, and types of service needed. Provide passengers with assistance entering and exiting trains. Answer questions from passengers concerning train rules, stations, and timetable information.
53-4031| Railroad Conductors and Yardmasters|Signal engineers to begin train runs, stop trains, or change speed, using telecommunications equipment or hand signals. Confer with engineers regarding train routes, timetables, and cargoes, and to discuss alternative routes when there are rail defects or obstructions. Receive information regarding train or rail problems from dispatchers or from electronic monitoring devices. Receive instructions from dispatchers regarding trains' routes, timetables, and cargoes. Direct and instruct workers engaged in yard activities, such as switching tracks, coupling and uncoupling cars, and routing inbound and outbound traffic. Operate controls to activate track switches and traffic signals. Keep records of the contents and destination of each train car, and make sure that cars are added or removed at proper points on routes. Arrange for the removal of defective cars from trains at stations or stops. Direct engineers to move cars to fit planned train configurations, combining or separating cars to make up or break up trains. Inspect each car periodically during runs. Review schedules, switching orders, way bills, and shipping records to obtain cargo loading and unloading information and to plan work. Confirm routes and destination information for freight cars. Verify accuracy of timekeeping instruments with engineers to ensure trains depart on time. Document and prepare reports of accidents, unscheduled stops, or delays. Instruct workers to set warning signals in front and at rear of trains during emergency stops. Observe yard traffic to determine tracks available to accommodate inbound and outbound traffic. Supervise workers in the inspection and maintenance of mechanical equipment to ensure efficient and safe train operation. Supervise and coordinate crew activities to transport freight and passengers and to provide boarding, porter, maid, and meal services to passengers. Record departure and arrival times, messages, tickets and revenue collected, and passenger accommodations and destinations. Inspect freight cars for compliance with sealing procedures and record car numbers and seal numbers. Collect tickets, fares, or passes from passengers.
53-4041| Subway and Streetcar Operators|Operate controls to open and close transit vehicle doors. Drive and control rail-guided public transportation, such as subways, elevated trains, and electric-powered streetcars, trams, or trolleys, to transport passengers. Monitor lights indicating obstructions or other trains ahead and watch for car and truck traffic at crossings to stay alert to potential hazards. Direct emergency evacuation procedures. Regulate vehicle speed and the time spent at each stop to maintain schedules. Report delays, mechanical problems, and emergencies to supervisors or dispatchers, using radios. Make announcements to passengers, such as notifications of upcoming stops or schedule delays. Complete reports, including shift summaries and incident or accident reports. Greet passengers, provide information, and answer questions concerning fares, schedules, transfers, and routings. Attend meetings on driver and passenger safety to learn ways in which job performance might be affected. Collect fares from passengers, and issue change and transfers. Record transactions and coin receptor readings to verify the amount of money collected.
53-5011| Sailors and Marine Oilers|Maintain government-issued certifications, as required. Lower and man lifeboats when emergencies occur. Stand by wheels when ships are on automatic pilot and verify accuracy of courses, using magnetic compasses. Steer ships under the direction of commanders or navigating officers or direct helmsmen to steer, following designated courses. Handle lines to moor vessels to wharfs, to tie up vessels to other vessels, or to rig towing lines. Stand watch in ships' bows or bridge wings to look for obstructions in a ship's path or to locate navigational aids, such as buoys or lighthouses. Stand gangway watches to prevent unauthorized persons from boarding ships while in port. Overhaul lifeboats or lifeboat gear and lower or raise lifeboats with winches or falls. Operate, maintain, or repair ship equipment, such as winches, cranes, derricks, or weapons system. Load or unload materials from vessels. Lubricate machinery, equipment, or engine parts such as gears, shafts, or bearings. Break out, rig, and stow cargo-handling gear, stationary rigging, or running gear. Splice and repair ropes, wire cables, or cordage, using marlinespikes, wire cutters, twine, and hand tools. Provide engineers with assistance in repairing or adjusting machinery. Paint or varnish decks, superstructures, lifeboats, or sides of ships. Sweep, mop, and wash down decks to remove oil, dirt, and debris, using brooms, mops, brushes, and hoses. Chip and clean rust spots on decks, superstructures, or sides of ships, using wire brushes and hand or air chipping machines. Give directions to crew members engaged in cleaning wheelhouses or quarterdecks. Read pressure and temperature gauges or displays and record data in engineering logs. Examine machinery to verify specified pressures or lubricant flows. Measure depth of water in shallow or unfamiliar waters, using leadlines, and telephone or shout depth information to vessel bridges. Record in ships' logs data such as weather conditions and distances traveled. Attach hoses and operate pumps to transfer substances to and from liquid cargo tanks. Maintain a ship's engines under the direction of the ship's engineering officers. Relay specified signals to other ships, using visual signaling devices, such as blinker lights or semaphores. Tie barges together into tow units for tugboats to handle, inspecting barges periodically during voyages and disconnecting them when destinations are reached.
53-5021|Captains, Mates, and Pilots of Water Vessels|Steer and operate vessels, using radios, depth finders, radars, lights, buoys, or lighthouses. Dock or undock vessels, sometimes maneuvering through narrow spaces, such as locks. Adjust navigation according to weather conditions. Inspect vessels to ensure efficient and safe operation of vessels and equipment and conformance to regulations. Read gauges to verify sufficient levels of hydraulic fluid, air pressure, or oxygen. Conduct safety drills with crew. Compute positions, set courses, and determine speeds, using charts, area plotting sheets, compasses, sextants, and knowledge of local conditions. Signal passing vessels, using whistles, flashing lights, flags, or radios. Measure depths of water, using depth-measuring equipment. Signal crew members or deckhands to rig tow lines, open or close gates or ramps, or pull guard chains across entries. Maintain boats or equipment on board, such as engines, winches, navigational systems, fire extinguishers, or life preservers. Maintain records of daily activities, personnel reports, ship positions and movements, ports of call, weather and sea conditions, pollution control efforts, or cargo or passenger status. Monitor the loading or discharging of cargo or passengers. Calculate sightings of land, using electronic sounding devices and following contour lines on charts. Direct or coordinate crew members or workers performing activities such as loading or unloading cargo, steering vessels, operating engines, or operating, maintaining, or repairing ship equipment. Arrange for ships to be fueled, restocked with supplies, or repaired. Purchase supplies or equipment. Tow and maneuver barges or signal tugboats to tow barges to destinations. Perform various marine duties, such as checking for oil spills or other pollutants around ports or harbors or patrolling beaches. Collect fares from customers or signal ferryboat helpers to collect fares. Resolve questions or problems with customs officials. Sort logs, form log booms, or salvage lost logs. Assign watches or living quarters to crew members. Interview and hire crew members.Stand watches on vessels during specified periods while vessels are under way. Assume command of vessels in the event that ships' masters become incapacitated. Steer vessels, using navigational devices, such as compasses or sextants, or navigational aids, such as lighthouses or buoys. Determine geographical positions of ships, using lorans, azimuths of celestial bodies, or computers, and use this information to determine the course and speed of a ship. Inspect equipment, such as cargo-handling gear, lifesaving equipment, visual-signaling equipment, or fishing, towing, or dredging gear, to detect problems. Observe loading or unloading of cargo or equipment to ensure that handling and storage are performed according to specifications. Participate in activities related to maintenance of vessel security. Arrange for ships to be stocked, fueled, or repaired. Supervise crew members in the repair or replacement of defective gear or equipment. Supervise crews in cleaning or maintaining decks, superstructures, or bridges. Observe water from ships' mastheads to advise on navigational direction.Direct courses and speeds of ships, based on specialized knowledge of local winds, weather, water depths, tides, currents, and hazards. Steer ships into or out of berths or signal tugboat captains to berth or unberth ships. Set ships' courses that avoid reefs, outlying shoals, or other hazards, using navigational aids, such as lighthouses or buoys. Prevent ships under their navigational control from engaging in unsafe operations. Serve as a vessel's docking master upon arrival at a port or when at a berth. Consult maps, charts, weather reports, or navigation equipment to determine and direct ship movements. Give directions to crew members who are steering ships. Operate ship-to-shore radios to exchange information needed for ship operations. Provide assistance to vessels approaching or leaving seacoasts, navigating harbors, or docking and undocking. Report to appropriate authorities any violations of federal or state pilotage laws. Provide assistance in maritime rescue operations. Advise ships' masters on harbor rules and customs procedures. Learn to operate new technology systems and procedures, through the use of instruction, simulators, or models. Maintain ship logs. Relieve crew members on tugs or launches. Maintain or repair boats or equipment. Oversee cargo storage on or below decks. Make nautical maps.
53-5022| Motorboat Operators|Maintain desired courses, using compasses or electronic navigational aids. Follow safety procedures to ensure the protection of passengers, cargo, and vessels. Direct safety operations in emergency situations. Operate engine throttles and steering mechanisms to guide boats on desired courses. Oversee operation of vessels used for carrying passengers, motor vehicles, or goods across rivers, harbors, lakes, and coastal waters. Secure boats to docks with mooring lines, and cast off lines to enable departure. Service motors by performing tasks such as changing oil and lubricating parts. Arrange repairs, fuel, and supplies for vessels. Maintain equipment such as range markers, fire extinguishers, boat fenders, lines, pumps, and fittings. Organize and direct the activities of crew members. Report any observed navigational hazards to authorities. Issue directions for loading, unloading, and seating in boats. Clean boats and repair hulls and superstructures, using hand tools, paint, and brushes. Tow, push, or guide other boats, barges, logs, or rafts. Take depth soundings in turning basins. Perform general labor duties such as repairing booms.
53-5031| Ship Engineers|Monitor the availability, use, or condition of lifesaving equipment or pollution preventatives to ensure that international regulations are followed. Monitor engine, machinery, or equipment indicators when vessels are underway and report abnormalities to appropriate shipboard staff. Maintain electrical power, heating, ventilation, refrigeration, water, or sewerage systems. Record orders for changes in ship speed or direction and note gauge readings or test data, such as revolutions per minute or voltage output, in engineering logs or bellbooks. Perform or participate in emergency drills, as required. Maintain complete records of engineering department activities, including machine operations. Start engines to propel ships and regulate engines and power transmissions to control speeds of ships, according to directions from captains or bridge computers. Monitor and test operations of engines or other equipment so that malfunctions and their causes can be identified. Maintain or repair engines, electric motors, pumps, winches, or other mechanical or electrical equipment or assist other crew members with maintenance or repair duties. Perform general marine vessel maintenance or repair work, such as repairing leaks, finishing interiors, refueling, or maintaining decks. Operate or maintain off-loading liquid pumps or valves. Clean engine parts and keep engine rooms clean. Supervise the activities of marine engine technicians engaged in the maintenance or repair of mechanical or electrical marine vessels and inspect their work to ensure that it is performed properly. Order and receive engine room stores, such as oil or spare parts, maintain inventories, and record usage of supplies. Act as a liaison between a ship's captain and shore personnel to ensure that schedules and budgets are maintained and that the ship is operated safely and efficiently. Install engine controls, propeller shafts, or propellers. Fabricate engine replacement parts, such as valves, stay rods, or bolts, using metalworking machinery.
53-6011| Bridge and Lock Tenders|Move levers to activate traffic signals, navigation lights, and alarms. Record names, types, and destinations of vessels passing through bridge openings or locks, and numbers of trains or vehicles crossing bridges. Control machinery to open and close canal locks and dams, railroad or highway drawbridges, or horizontally or vertically adjustable bridges. Direct movements of vessels in locks or bridge areas, using signals, telecommunication equipment, or loudspeakers. Prepare accident reports. Observe approaching vessels to determine size and speed, and listen for whistle signals indicating desire to pass. Observe position and progress of vessels to ensure best utilization of lock spaces or bridge opening spaces. Maintain and guard stations in bridges to check waterways for boat traffic. Inspect canal and bridge equipment, and areas such as roadbeds for damage or defects, reporting problems to supervisors as necessary. Clean and lubricate equipment, and make minor repairs and adjustments. Log data such as water levels and weather conditions. Write and submit maintenance work requisitions. Perform maintenance duties such as sweeping, painting, and yard work to keep facilities clean and in order. Check that bridges are clear of vehicles and pedestrians prior to opening. Turn valves to increase or decrease water levels in locks. Stop automobile and pedestrian traffic on bridges, and lower automobile gates prior to moving bridges. Raise drawbridges and observe passage of water traffic, then lower drawbridges and raise automobile gates. Operate lighthouses to assist marine passage near shores and dangerous waters. Add and remove balance weights to bridge mechanisms as necessary. Attach ropes or cable lines to bitts on lock decks or wharfs to secure vessels.
53-6021| Parking Lot Attendants|Take numbered tags from customers, locate vehicles, and deliver vehicles, or provide customers with instructions for locating vehicles. Inspect vehicles to detect any damage. Greet customers and open their car doors. Issue ticket stubs or place numbered tags on windshields, log tags or attach tag to customers' keys, and give customers matching tags for locating parked vehicles. Perform cash handling tasks, such as making change, balancing and recording cash drawer, or distributing tips. Explain and calculate parking charges, collect fees from customers, and respond to customer complaints. Park and retrieve automobiles for customers in parking lots, storage garages, or new car lots. Provide customer assistance and information, such as giving directions or handling wheelchairs. Keep parking areas clean and orderly to ensure that space usage is maximized. Call emergency responders or the proper authorities and provide motorist assistance, such as giving directions or helping jump start a stalled vehicle. Patrol parking areas to prevent vehicle damage and vehicle or property thefts. Direct motorists to parking areas or parking spaces, using hand signals or flashlights as necessary. Escort customers to their vehicles to ensure their safety. Perform maintenance on cars in storage to protect tires, batteries, or exteriors from deterioration. Lift, position, and remove barricades to open or close parking areas. Perform personnel activities, such as supervising or scheduling employees. Review motorists' identification before allowing them to enter parking facilities.
53-6031| Automotive and Watercraft Service Attendants|Collect cash payments from customers and make change or charge purchases to customers' credit cards and provide customers with receipts. Activate fuel pumps and fill fuel tanks of vehicles with gasoline or diesel fuel to specified levels. Prepare daily reports of fuel, oil, and accessory sales. Clean parking areas, offices, restrooms, or equipment and remove trash. Check air pressure in vehicle tires; and levels of fuel, motor oil, transmission, radiator, battery, and other fluids; and add air, oil, water, or other fluids, as required. Clean windshields, and/or wash and wax vehicles. Provide customers with information about local roads or highways. Perform minor repairs, such as adjusting brakes, replacing spark plugs, or changing engine oil or filters. Order stock and price and shelve incoming goods. Rotate, test, and repair or replace tires. Sell prepared food, groceries, or related items. Maintain customer records and follow up periodically with telephone, mail, or personal reminders of services due. Grease and lubricate vehicles or specified units, such as springs, universal joints, or steering knuckles, using grease guns or spray lubricants. Sell and install accessories, such as batteries, windshield wiper blades, fan belts, bulbs, or headlamps. Test and charge batteries. Operate car washes.
53-6041| Traffic Technicians|Interact with the public to answer traffic-related questions, respond to complaints or requests, or discuss traffic control ordinances, plans, policies, or procedures. Prepare drawings of proposed signal installations or other control devices, using drafting instruments or computer-automated drafting equipment. Provide technical supervision regarding traffic control devices to other traffic technicians or laborers. Analyze data related to traffic flow, accident rates, or proposed development to determine the most efficient methods to expedite traffic flow. Plan, design, and improve components of traffic control systems to accommodate current or projected traffic and to increase usability and efficiency. Prepare work orders for repair, maintenance, or changes in traffic systems. Lay out pavement markings for striping crews. Study factors affecting traffic conditions, such as lighting or sign and marking visibility, to assess their effectiveness. Gather and compile data from hand count sheets, machine count tapes, or radar speed checks and code data for computer input. Operate counters and record data to assess the volume, type, and movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic at specified times. Monitor street or utility projects for compliance to traffic control permit conditions. Review traffic control or barricade plans to issue permits for parades or other special events or for construction work that affects rights of way, providing assistance with plan preparation or revision, as necessary. Establish procedures for street closures or for repair or construction projects. Compute time settings for traffic signals or speed restrictions, using standard formulas. Visit development or work sites to determine projects' effect on traffic and the adequacy of traffic control and safety plans or to suggest traffic control measures. Place and secure automatic counters, using power tools, and retrieve counters after counting periods end. Measure and record the speed of vehicular traffic, using electrical timing devices or radar equipment. Prepare graphs, charts, diagrams, or other aids to illustrate observations or conclusions. Study traffic delays by noting times of delays, the numbers of vehicles affected, and vehicle speed through the delay area. Time stoplights or other delays, using stopwatches.
53-6051| Transportation Inspectors|Inspect work of aircraft mechanics performing maintenance, modification, or repair and overhaul of aircraft and aircraft mechanical systems to ensure adherence to standards and procedures. Examine aircraft access plates and doors for security. Examine landing gear, tires, and exteriors of fuselage, wings, and engines for evidence of damage or corrosion and the need for repairs. Examine maintenance records and flight logs to determine if service and maintenance checks and overhauls were performed at prescribed intervals. Inspect new, repaired, or modified aircraft to identify damage or defects and to assess airworthiness and conformance to standards, using checklists, hand tools, and test instruments. Prepare and maintain detailed repair, inspection, investigation, and certification records and reports. Approve or deny issuance of certificates of airworthiness. Conduct flight test programs to test equipment, instruments, and systems under a variety of conditions, using both manual and automatic controls. Investigate air accidents and complaints to determine causes. Start aircraft and observe gauges, meters, and other instruments to detect evidence of malfunctions. Recommend replacement, repair, or modification of aircraft equipment. Analyze training programs and conduct oral and written examinations to ensure the competency of persons operating, installing, and repairing aircraft equipment. Recommend changes in rules, policies, standards, and regulations, based on knowledge of operating conditions, aircraft improvements, and other factors.Inspect vehicles or other equipment for evidence of abuse, damage, or mechanical malfunction. Inspect vehicles or equipment to ensure compliance with rules, standards, or regulations. Inspect repairs to transportation vehicles or equipment to ensure that repair work was performed properly. Identify modifications to engines, fuel systems, emissions control equipment, or other vehicle systems to determine the impact of modifications on inspection procedures or conclusions. Perform low-pressure fuel evaluative tests (LPFET) to test for harmful emissions from vehicles without onboard diagnostics (OBD) equipment. Conduct remote inspections of motor vehicles, using handheld controllers and remotely directed vehicle inspection devices. Prepare reports on investigations or inspections and actions taken. Issue notices and recommend corrective actions when infractions or problems are found. Compare emissions findings with applicable emissions standards. Investigate and make recommendations on carrier requests for waiver of federal standards. Conduct visual inspections of emission control equipment and smoke emitted from gasoline or diesel vehicles. Conduct vehicle or transportation equipment tests, using diagnostic equipment. Identify emissions testing procedures and standards appropriate for the age and technology of vehicles. Investigate incidents or violations, such as delays, accidents, and equipment failures. Negotiate with authorities, such as local government officials, to eliminate hazards along transportation routes. Review commercial vehicle logs, shipping papers, or driver and equipment records to detect any problems or to ensure compliance with regulations. Attach onboard diagnostics (OBD) scanner cables to vehicles to conduct emissions inspections. Investigate complaints regarding safety violations. Examine carrier operating rules, employee qualification guidelines, or carrier training and testing programs for compliance with regulations or safety standards.Prepare and submit reports after completion of freight shipments. Inspect shipments to ensure that freight is securely braced and blocked. Record details about freight conditions, handling of freight, and any problems encountered. Advise crews in techniques of stowing dangerous and heavy cargo. Observe loading of freight to ensure that crews comply with procedures. Recommend remedial procedures to correct any violations found during inspections. Inspect loaded cargo, cargo lashed to decks or in storage facilities, and cargo handling devices to determine compliance with health and safety regulations and need for maintenance. Measure ships' holds and depths of fuel and water in tanks, using sounding lines and tape measures. Notify workers of any special treatment required for shipments. Direct crews to reload freight or to insert additional bracing or packing as necessary. Check temperatures and humidities of shipping and storage areas to ensure that they are at appropriate levels to protect cargo. Determine cargo transportation capabilities by reading documents that set forth cargo loading and securing procedures, capacities, and stability factors. Read draft markings to determine depths of vessels in water. Issue certificates of compliance for vessels without violations. Write certificates of admeasurement that list details such as designs, lengths, depths, and breadths of vessels, and methods of propulsion. Calculate gross and net tonnage, hold capacities, volumes of stored fuel and water, cargo weights, and ship stability factors, using mathematical formulas. Post warning signs on vehicles containing explosives or flammable or radioactive materials. Measure heights and widths of loads to ensure they will pass over bridges or through tunnels on scheduled routes. Time rolls of ships, using stopwatches.
53-6061| Transportation Attendants, Except Flight Attendants|Secure passengers for transportation by buckling seatbelts or fastening wheelchairs with tie-down straps. Provide boarding assistance to elderly, sick, or injured people. Respond to passengers' questions, requests, or complaints. Determine or facilitate seating arrangements. Provide customers with information on routes, gates, prices, timetables, terminals, or concourses. Perform equipment safety checks prior to departure. Issue and collect passenger boarding passes and transfers, tearing or punching tickets as necessary to prevent reuse. Greet passengers boarding transportation equipment and announce routes and stops. Count and verify tickets and seat reservations and record numbers of passengers boarding and disembarking. Explain and demonstrate safety procedures and safety equipment use. Open and close doors for passengers. Signal transportation operators to stop or to proceed. Adjust window shades or seat cushions at the request of passengers. Transport baggage or coordinate transportation between assigned rooms, terminals, or platforms.
53-7011| Conveyor Operators and Tenders|Position deflector bars, gates, chutes, or spouts to divert flow of materials from one conveyor onto another conveyor. Weigh or measure materials and products, using scales or other measuring instruments, or read scales on conveyors that continually weigh products, to verify specified tonnages and prevent overloads. Manipulate controls, levers, and valves to start pumps, auxiliary equipment, or conveyors, and to adjust equipment positions, speeds, timing, and material flows. Record production data such as weights, types, quantities, and storage locations of materials, as well as equipment performance problems and downtime. Inform supervisors of equipment malfunctions that need to be addressed. Clean, sterilize, and maintain equipment, machinery, and work stations, using hand tools, shovels, brooms, chemicals, hoses, and lubricants. Observe conveyor operations and monitor lights, dials, and gauges to maintain specified operating levels and to detect equipment malfunctions. Operate elevator systems in conjunction with conveyor systems. Read production and delivery schedules, and confer with supervisors, to determine sorting and transfer procedures, arrangement of packages on pallets, and destinations of loaded pallets. Repair or replace equipment components or parts such as blades, rolls, and pumps. Contact workers in work stations or other departments to request movement of materials, products, or machinery, or to notify them of incoming shipments and their estimated delivery times. Stop equipment or machinery and clear jams, using poles, bars, and hand tools, or remove damaged materials from conveyors. Collect samples of materials or products, checking them to ensure conformance to specifications or sending them to laboratories for analysis. Load, unload, or adjust materials or products on conveyors by hand, by using lifts, hoists, and scoops, or by opening gates, chutes, or hoppers. Operate consoles to control automatic palletizing equipment. Affix identifying information to materials or products, using hand tools. Distribute materials, supplies, and equipment to work stations, using lifts and trucks. Move, assemble, and connect hoses or nozzles to material hoppers, storage tanks, conveyor sections or chutes, and pumps. Observe packages moving along conveyors in order to identify packages and to detect defective packaging. Measure dimensions of bundles, using rulers, and cut battens to required sizes, using power saws. Press console buttons to deflect packages to predetermined accumulators or reject lines. Join sections of conveyor frames at temporary working areas, and connect power units. Thread strapping through strapping tools and secure battens with strapping to form protective pallets around extrusions.
53-7021| Crane and Tower Operators|Determine load weights and check them against lifting capacities to prevent overload. Move levers, depress foot pedals, or turn dials to operate cranes, cherry pickers, electromagnets, or other moving equipment for lifting, moving, or placing loads. Inspect and adjust crane mechanisms or lifting accessories to prevent malfunctions or damage. Inspect cables or grappling devices for wear and install or replace cables, as needed. Direct helpers engaged in placing blocking or outrigging under cranes. Clean, lubricate, and maintain mechanisms such as cables, pulleys, or grappling devices, making repairs as necessary. Load or unload bundles from trucks or move containers to storage bins, using moving equipment. Review daily work or delivery schedules to determine orders, sequences of deliveries, or special loading instructions. Inspect bundle packaging for conformance to regulations or customer requirements and remove and batch packaging tickets. Direct truck drivers backing vehicles into loading bays and cover, uncover, or secure loads for delivery. Weigh bundles, using floor scales, and record weights for company records.
53-7031| Dredge Operators|Move levers to position dredges for excavation, to engage hydraulic pumps, to raise and lower suction booms, and to control rotation of cutterheads. Start and stop engines to operate equipment. Start power winches that draw in or let out cables to change positions of dredges, or pull in and let out cables manually. Pump water to clear machinery pipelines. Lower anchor poles to verify depths of excavations, using winches, or scan depth gauges to determine depths of excavations. Direct or assist workers placing shore anchors and cables, laying additional pipes from dredges to shore, and pumping water from pontoons.
53-7032| Excavating and Loading Machine and Dragline Operators|Move levers, depress foot pedals, and turn dials to operate power machinery, such as power shovels, stripping shovels, scraper loaders, or backhoes. Set up or inspect equipment prior to operation. Become familiar with digging plans, machine capabilities and limitations, and with efficient and safe digging procedures in a given application. Observe hand signals, grade stakes, or other markings when operating machines so that work can be performed to specifications. Operate machinery to perform activities such as backfilling excavations, vibrating or breaking rock or concrete, or making winter roads. Receive written or oral instructions regarding material movement or excavation. Move materials over short distances, such as around a construction site, factory, or warehouse. Create or maintain inclines or ramps. Lubricate, adjust, or repair machinery and replace parts, such as gears, bearings, or bucket teeth. Handle slides, mud, or pit cleanings or maintenance. Direct workers engaged in placing blocks or outriggers to prevent capsizing of machines when lifting heavy loads. Measure and verify levels of rock or gravel, bases, or other excavated material. Direct ground workers engaged in activities such as moving stakes or markers, or changing positions of towers. Adjust dig face angles for varying overburden depths and set lengths. Drive machines to work sites. Perform manual labor to prepare or finish sites, such as shoveling materials by hand.
53-7033| Loading Machine Operators, Underground Mining|Pry off loose material from roofs and move it into the paths of machines, using crowbars. Move trailing electrical cables clear of obstructions, using rubber safety gloves. Drive machines into piles of material blasted from working faces. Operate levers to move conveyor booms or shovels so that mine contents such as coal, rock, and ore can be placed into cars or onto conveyors. Clean hoppers, and clean spillage from tracks, walks, driveways, and conveyor decking. Oil, lubricate, and adjust conveyors, crushers, and other equipment, using hand tools and lubricating equipment. Replace hydraulic hoses, headlight bulbs, and gathering-arm teeth. Stop gathering arms when cars are full. Advance machines to gather material and convey it into cars. Start conveyor booms and gathering-arm motors, and operate winches to position cars under boom conveyors for loading. Signal workers to move loaded cars. Observe and record car numbers, carriers, customers, tonnages, and grades and conditions of material. Notify switching departments to deliver specific types of cars. Inspect boarding and locking of open-top box cars and wedging of side-drop and hopper cars to prevent loss of material in transit. Estimate and record amounts of material in bins.
53-7041| Hoist and Winch Operators|Move levers, pedals, and throttles to stop, start, and regulate speeds of hoist or winch drums in response to hand, bell, buzzer, telephone, loud-speaker, or whistle signals, or by observing dial indicators or cable marks. Start engines of hoists or winches and use levers and pedals to wind or unwind cable on drums. Observe equipment gauges and indicators and hand signals of other workers to verify load positions or depths. Operate compressed air, diesel, electric, gasoline, or steam-driven hoists or winches to control movement of cableways, cages, derricks, draglines, loaders, railcars, or skips. Move or reposition hoists, winches, loads and materials, manually or using equipment and machines such as trucks, cars, and hand trucks. Select loads or materials according to weight and size specifications. Signal and assist other workers loading or unloading materials. Attach, fasten, and disconnect cables or lines to loads, materials, and equipment, using hand tools. Apply hand or foot brakes and move levers to lock hoists or winches. Oil winch drums so that cables will wind smoothly. Climb ladders to position and set up vehicle-mounted derricks. Repair, maintain, and adjust equipment, using hand tools. Tend auxiliary equipment, such as jacks, slings, cables, or stop blocks, to facilitate moving items or materials for further processing.
53-7051| Industrial Truck and Tractor Operators|Move levers or controls that operate lifting devices, such as forklifts, lift beams with swivel-hooks, hoists, or elevating platforms, to load, unload, transport, or stack material. Inspect product load for accuracy and safely move it around the warehouse or facility to ensure timely and complete delivery. Manually or mechanically load or unload materials from pallets, skids, platforms, cars, lifting devices, or other transport vehicles. Position lifting devices under, over, or around loaded pallets, skids, or boxes and secure material or products for transport to designated areas. Weigh materials or products and record weight or other production data on tags or labels. Perform routine maintenance on vehicles or auxiliary equipment, such as cleaning, lubricating, recharging batteries, fueling, or replacing liquefied-gas tank. Move controls to drive gasoline- or electric-powered trucks, cars, or tractors and transport materials between loading, processing, and storage areas. Operate or tend automatic stacking, loading, packaging, or cutting machines. Signal workers to discharge, dump, or level materials. Hook tow trucks to trailer hitches and fasten attachments, such as graders, plows, rollers, or winch cables to tractors, using hitchpins. Turn valves and open chutes to dump, spray, or release materials from dump cars or storage bins into hoppers.
53-7061| Cleaners of Vehicles and Equipment|Clean and polish vehicle windows. Scrub, scrape, or spray machine parts, equipment, or vehicles, using scrapers, brushes, clothes, cleaners, disinfectants, insecticides, acid, abrasives, vacuums, or hoses. Apply paints, dyes, polishes, reconditioners, waxes, or masking materials to vehicles to preserve, protect, or restore color or condition. Inspect parts, equipment, or vehicles for cleanliness, damage, and compliance with standards or regulations. Maintain inventories of supplies. Press buttons to activate cleaning equipment or machines. Monitor operation of cleaning machines and stop machines or notify supervisors when malfunctions occur. Mix cleaning solutions, abrasive compositions, or other compounds, according to formulas. Turn valves or handles on equipment to regulate pressure or flow of water, air, steam, or abrasives from sprayer nozzles. Rinse objects and place them on drying racks or use cloth, squeegees, or air compressors to dry surfaces. Turn valves or disconnect hoses to eliminate water, cleaning solutions, or vapors from machinery or tanks. Sweep, shovel, or vacuum loose debris or salvageable scrap into containers and remove containers from work areas. Disassemble and reassemble machines or equipment or remove and reattach vehicle parts or trim, using hand tools. Drive vehicles to or from workshops or customers' workplaces or homes. Clean the plastic work inside cars, using paintbrushes. Pre-soak or rinse machine parts, equipment, or vehicles by immersing objects in cleaning solutions or water, manually or using hoists. Connect hoses or lines to pumps or other equipment. Collect and test samples of cleaning solutions or vapors. Lubricate machinery, vehicles, or equipment or perform minor repairs or adjustments, using hand tools.
53-7062| Laborers and Freight, Stock, and Material Movers, Hand|Move freight, stock, or other materials to and from storage or production areas, loading docks, delivery vehicles, ships, or containers, by hand or using trucks, tractors, or other equipment. Sort cargo before loading and unloading. Attach identifying tags to containers or mark them with identifying information. Read work orders or receive oral instructions to determine work assignments or material or equipment needs. Stack cargo in locations such as transit sheds or in holds of ships as directed, using pallets or cargo boards. Record numbers of units handled or moved, using daily production sheets or work tickets. Install protective devices, such as bracing, padding, or strapping, to prevent shifting or damage to items being transported. Direct spouts and position receptacles, such as bins, carts, or containers so they can be loaded. Attach slings, hooks, or other devices to lift cargo and guide loads. Maintain equipment storage areas to ensure that inventory is protected. Adjust controls to guide, position, or move equipment, such as cranes, booms, or cameras. Guide loads being lifted to prevent swinging. Wash out cargo containers or storage areas. Pack containers and re-pack damaged containers. Carry needed tools or supplies from storage or trucks and return them after use. Shovel material, such as gravel, ice, or spilled concrete, into containers or bins or onto conveyors. Connect electrical equipment to power sources so that it can be tested before use. Carry out general yard duties, such as performing shunting on railway lines. Rig or dismantle props or equipment, such as frames, scaffolding, platforms, or backdrops, using hand tools.
53-7063| Machine Feeders and Offbearers|Inspect materials and products for defects, and to ensure conformance to specifications. Remove materials and products from machines and equipment, and place them in boxes, trucks or conveyors, using hand tools and moving devices. Push dual control buttons and move controls to start, stop, or adjust machinery and equipment. Identify and mark materials, products, and samples, following instructions. Load materials and products into machines and equipment, or onto conveyors, using hand tools and moving devices. Clean and maintain machinery, equipment, and work areas to ensure proper functioning and safe working conditions. Weigh or measure materials or products to ensure conformance to specifications. Fasten, package, or stack materials and products, using hand tools and fastening equipment. Record production and operational data, such as amount of materials processed. Add chemicals, solutions, or ingredients to machines or equipment as required by the manufacturing process. Transfer materials and products to and from machinery and equipment, using industrial trucks or hand trucks. Open and close gates of belt and pneumatic conveyors on machines that are fed directly from preceding machines. Shovel or scoop materials into containers, machines, or equipment for processing, storage, or transport.
53-7064| Packers and Packagers, Hand|Load materials and products into package processing equipment. Clean containers, materials, supplies, or work areas, using cleaning solutions and hand tools. Record product, packaging, and order information on specified forms and records. Examine and inspect containers, materials, and products to ensure that packing specifications are met. Measure, weigh, and count products and materials. Mark and label containers, container tags, or products, using marking tools. Place or pour products or materials into containers, using hand tools and equipment, or fill containers from spouts or chutes. Remove completed or defective products or materials, placing them on moving equipment such as conveyors or in specified areas such as loading docks. Transport packages to customers' vehicles. Assemble, line, and pad cartons, crates, and containers, using hand tools. Obtain, move, and sort products, materials, containers, and orders, using hand tools. Seal containers or materials, using glues, fasteners, nails, and hand tools.
53-7071| Gas Compressor and Gas Pumping Station Operators|Monitor meters and pressure gauges to determine consumption rate variations, temperatures, and pressures. Adjust valves and equipment to obtain specified performance. Read gas meters, and maintain records of the amounts of gas received and dispensed from holders. Operate power-driven pumps that transfer liquids, semi-liquids, gases, or powdered materials. Record instrument readings and operational changes in operating logs. Move controls and turn valves to start compressor engines, pumps, and auxiliary equipment. Turn knobs or switches to regulate pressures. Respond to problems by adjusting control room equipment or instructing other personnel to adjust equipment at problem locations or in other control areas. Take samples of gases and conduct chemical tests to determine gas quality and sulfur or moisture content, or send samples to laboratories for analysis. Clean, lubricate, and adjust equipment, and replace filters and gaskets, using hand tools. Submit daily reports on facility operations. Connect pipelines between pumps and containers that are being filled or emptied. Maintain each station by performing general housekeeping duties such as painting, washing, and cleaning.
53-7072| Pump Operators, Except Wellhead Pumpers|Monitor gauges and flowmeters and inspect equipment to ensure that tank levels, temperatures, chemical amounts, and pressures are at specified levels, reporting abnormalities as necessary. Record operating data such as products and quantities pumped, stocks used, gauging results, and operating times. Communicate with other workers, using signals, radios, or telephones, to start and stop flows of materials or substances. Tend vessels that store substances such as gases, liquids, slurries, or powdered materials, checking levels of substances by using calibrated rods or by reading mercury gauges and tank charts. Turn valves and start pumps to start or regulate flows of substances such as gases, liquids, slurries, or powdered materials. Plan movement of products through lines to processing, storage, and shipping units, using knowledge of interconnections and capacities of pipelines, valve manifolds, pumps, and tankage. Read operating schedules or instructions or receive verbal orders to determine amounts to be pumped. Clean, lubricate, and repair pumps and vessels, using hand tools and equipment. Collect and deliver sample solutions for laboratory analysis. Connect hoses and pipelines to pumps and vessels prior to material transfer, using hand tools. Tend auxiliary equipment such as water treatment and refrigeration units, and heat exchangers. Add chemicals and solutions to tanks to ensure that specifications are met. Pump two or more materials into one tank to blend mixtures. Test materials and solutions, using testing equipment.
53-7073| Wellhead Pumpers|Monitor control panels during pumping operations to ensure that materials are being pumped at the correct pressure, density, rate, and concentration. Operate engines and pumps to shut off wells according to production schedules, and to switch flow of oil into storage tanks. Perform routine maintenance on vehicles and equipment. Repair gas and oil meters and gauges. Unload and assemble pipes and pumping equipment, using hand tools. Attach pumps and hoses to wellheads. Start compressor engines and divert oil from storage tanks into compressor units and auxiliary equipment to recover natural gas from oil. Open valves to return compressed gas to bottoms of specified wells to repressurize them and force oil to surface. Supervise oil pumpers and other workers engaged in producing oil from wells. Drive trucks to transport high-pressure pumping equipment, and chemicals, fluids, or gases to be pumped into wells. Prepare trucks and equipment necessary for the type of pumping service required.
53-7081| Refuse and Recyclable Material Collectors|Operate automated or semi-automated hoisting devices that raise refuse bins and dump contents into openings in truck bodies. Inspect trucks prior to beginning routes to ensure safe operating condition. Drive trucks, following established routes, through residential streets or alleys or through business or industrial areas. Operate equipment that compresses collected refuse. Dump refuse or recyclable materials at disposal sites. Dismount garbage trucks to collect garbage and remount trucks to ride to the next collection point. Refuel trucks or add other fluids, such as oil or brake fluid. Fill out defective equipment reports. Communicate with dispatchers concerning delays, unsafe sites, accidents, equipment breakdowns, or other maintenance problems. Check road or weather conditions to determine how routes will be affected. Clean trucks or compactor bodies after routes have been completed. Tag garbage or recycling containers to inform customers of problems such as excess garbage or inclusion of items that are not permitted. Provide quotes for refuse collection contracts. Organize schedules for refuse collection. Sort items set out for recycling and throw materials into designated truck compartments. Make special pickups of recyclable materials, such as food scraps, used oil, discarded computers, or other electronic items.
53-7111| Mine Shuttle Car Operators|Control conveyors that run the entire length of shuttle cars to distribute loads as loading progresses. Drive loaded shuttle cars to ramps and move controls to discharge loads into mine cars or onto conveyors. Clean, fuel, and service equipment, and repair and replace parts as necessary. Move mine cars into position for loading and unloading, using pinchbars inserted under car wheels to position cars under loading spouts. Guide and stop cars by switching, applying brakes, or placing scotches, or wooden wedges, between wheels and rails. Push or ride cars down slopes, or hook cars to cables and control cable drum brakes, to ease cars down inclines. Observe hand signals, grade stakes, or other markings when operating machines. Open and close bottom doors of cars to dump contents. Direct other workers to move stakes, place blocks, position anchors or cables, or move materials. Monitor loading processes to ensure that materials are loaded according to specifications. Measure, weigh, or verify levels of rock, gravel, or other excavated material to prevent equipment overloads. Read written instructions or confer with supervisors about schedules and materials to be moved. Maintain records of materials moved.
53-7121| Tank Car, Truck, and Ship Loaders|Verify tank car, barge, or truck load numbers to ensure car placement accuracy based on written or verbal instructions. Observe positions of cars passing loading spouts, and swing spouts into the correct positions at the appropriate times. Operate ship loading and unloading equipment, conveyors, hoists, and other specialized material handling equipment such as railroad tank car unloading equipment. Monitor product movement to and from storage tanks, coordinating activities with other workers to ensure constant product flow. Record operating data such as products and quantities pumped, gauge readings, and operating times, manually or using computers. Check conditions and weights of vessels to ensure cleanliness and compliance with loading procedures. Operate industrial trucks, tractors, loaders and other equipment to transport materials to and from transportation vehicles and loading docks, and to store and retrieve materials in warehouses. Connect ground cables to carry off static electricity when unloading tanker cars. Seal outlet valves on tank cars, barges, and trucks. Test samples for specific gravity, using hydrometers, or send samples to laboratories for testing. Remove and replace tank car dome caps, or direct other workers in their removal and replacement. Lower gauge rods into tanks or read meters to verify contents, temperatures, and volumes of liquid loads. Clean interiors of tank cars or tank trucks, using mechanical spray nozzles. Operate conveyors and equipment to transfer grain or other materials from transportation vehicles. Test vessels for leaks, damage, and defects, and repair or replace defective parts as necessary. Unload cars containing liquids by connecting hoses to outlet plugs and pumping compressed air into cars to force liquids into storage tanks. Copy and attach load specifications to loaded tanks. Start pumps and adjust valves or cables to regulate the flow of products to vessels, using knowledge of loading procedures. Perform general warehouse activities, such as opening containers and crates, filling warehouse orders, assisting in taking inventory, and weighing and checking materials.
